




Bla bla bla 















 	Ch 1
The Unlikely Meeting

It was not that uncomfortable under the bed. Yes, a bit stuffy, but it was safe and calm there. Ruby heard his mother calling him for the second time, but he couldn’t decide whether he wanted to go out of his shelter or not. Pondering over that day, he was breathing in the dust that had been lingering under his bed for a long time. He waited for this day for so long and couldn’t believe that everything went wrong in the end. It wasn't just any other day. Today was his twelfth birthday. 
Birthdays meant a lot to Ruby, because on these days only the Sleeper family could spend some time together. Since the two elder children, the 17-year-old twins Ethan and Grace, considered family gatherings to be the most dull thing in the world and since their mother was an extremely busy woman, the family gatherings happened only once a year on Ruby’s birthday. And this year was quite special. His mother promised to take him to the Fantaglorium – a most spectacular fantasy fair that was coming to their town. It was open for only two Saturdays, one of them being Ruby's birthday. The Fantaglorium was everything Ruby wanted it to be, with one minor exception: it was highly expensive. It took Ruby some effort to make his mother say “yes”.
“But mum, just imagine: elves, mermaids, genies, dragons – all under the same roof! There will be magic shows, games and competitions, fortune-tellers, interactive theatre!” Ruby had no idea what an “interactive theatre” could possibly mean, but he read it from the poster and it sounded so good. “We could even buy a magic wand there!” He exclaimed. “Or – don’t buy,” he added hastily, seeing the expression of his mother’s face: she was counting money in her mind.
Eventually, she said yes and Ruby has been preparing for the Fantaglorium for the whole week. His happiness ended on the day of his birthday, though. Sneezing and brooding, Ruby was lying under the bed. 
The day was an utter disaster. During the morning picnic the family had almost managed to avoid quarrels and even took several pictures that captured those rare and peaceful moments of union. But after that his mother got a call and, naturally, “some extremely important business affair had just appeared” and the fair was canceled. Apart from being the mother of three children, Mrs. Sleeper was a business woman, with her phone always ringing. Not one important business affair could pass without her and it was very much in her character to postpone her family duties. She was a woman of words and not of deeds.
And that’s why on the evening of his birthday Ruby was lying under the bed.  “A business affair”, he mumbled miserably for the third time. Why were all of them so extremely important? And why couldn’t his mother let him go to the Fantaglorium alone? Innumerable questions were filling Ruby’s head. Why couldn’t everything just be exciting? Why weren’t there any adventures in his life? He could have stayed under the bed for probably the whole century, but heavy steps from the hall interrupted Ruby’s languishing. A pair of long feet stopped near the bed, right in front of his eyes.
“Of course he is under the bed again… Have you gone deaf?” It was his older brother, Ethan. “She’s been calling for you for ages.”
 “I’m not going anywhere,” Ruby had finally thought it over and staying under the bed seemed much more reasonable than facing his mother.
“Well, it’s either you go or I’m dragging you down myself.”
This was no joke, Ruby knew his brother too well. He sighed and started to crawl from under the bed rather slowly, hoping that Ethan would consider his work done and leave. Apparently, this was not the case. 
“Look, I don’t have time for this!” He said, taking Ruby by the hand and pulling him out. The next thing Ruby knew, he was dragged by his older brother downstairs. He made several attempts on letting himself free, but everything was in vain; Ethan's grip was too tight.
“Why do you always make troubles, and why is it always me who has to keep everything under control?” He was saying, while pulling his brother down the stairs.
There was nothing Ruby could answer. He was thinking about his mother telling him that she was very sorry, as she always does, for some important event ruining their plans, as they always do. He didn’t like this custom of hers, it was very annoying – why not just do everything right in the first place so that there is no necessity of saying excuses later?
When Ruby came into the kitchen – or better to say was dragged into the kitchen – the first thing he saw was his mother’s face. It was furious, to Ruby's utter astonishment, as he was expecting to see her sad or apologetic. Her blond hair was all over her face; her voice was loud and trembling with rage. 
“Ruben, this is the last time I’m telling you this, so listen carefully,” Ruby winced at the sound of his full name – he hated it. “I am quite content with your wild and bizarre interests in all these dragons and… and stuff, but for goodness’ sake, stop leaving all your books scattered on the kitchen table!”
Those were not the words that her son had expected to hear. He felt deeply ashamed and offended at the same time. From the corner of his eye he saw Ethan leaving the kitchen sneering. 
“Sorry,” he mumbled, “I forgot – ”
“Were you too busy reading books?” Mrs. Sleeper’s eyes were opened wide, as they always did when she was enraged. “I’m so tired of cleaning your mess, Ruben; you are twelve years old, not three!”
Ruby's insides were quivering. He hated it when his mother screamed.
 “I want you to clean all the mess this instant.”
Mrs. Sleeper threw the last warning glance at Ruby, then at the mess that he had left on the kitchen table and left. Watching her leave, her youngest son rubbed his reddish wrist that the elder son had squeezed too tightly, and started gathering all the books, pens, pencils and sheets of paper. While making steady piles out of them he looked at his drawings trying to appraise them as if he was an objective viewer. All of them were fairy creatures, funnily dressed people, glorious buildings and dragons, dragons, dragons… Slowly his mind started to drift away, imagining these drawings to be real. Here he was, flying on a stunning dragon, high in the sky. He was a hero, a winner; people looked at him in admiration. He was free to do anything he wanted. He could fly to the west, to a beautiful spring with emerald waters in it. He could fly to the east, towards the most beautiful sunrise, he could -- 
BOOM! The peaceful silence was replaced with the noise of falling things – he had accidentally knocked down everything that he was supposed to put away. Ruby heard steps and looked up, afraid to see his mother, but instead of a blond plain woman there stood a magnificently beautiful girl of seventeen with dark curly hair, just like Ruby’s. It was Grace, his elder sister. Her expression was impossible to read, as always; she was neither angry, nor amused. Ignoring her brother and the scattered things, she took a glass of water and departed.
After collecting all his things for the second time, Ruby rushed upstairs into his room. In his mind he called it “the hut”. It was a mess, and by throwing his drawing on the bed, the boy only added to the chaos that had never left the room. The room had, however, an air of inspiration and ingenuity. The wall opposite the bed was all hung with Ruby’s drawings. The sad thing was that nobody, except for Ruby himself, had fancied his pictures and this wall was a rather gloomy reminder of it. 
Ruby felt deeply upset; the day couldn't have gone worse. Apart from the fact that it was his birthday and all the plans were ruined, everyone kept reminding him  how useless he was and even the wall was most likely to say: “Look at me, Ruben, what are you fit for? Not drawing, definitely, my dear”. Ruby sighed and set off downstairs, to the front door.
It was sunny outside and the weather was still warm. Lost in thoughts he found himself in the Atwood Park. It was empty, serene and quiet there. Being not particularly big, the park had always been empty, serene and quiet. Pathways, benches, flower beds – everything around was covered in red and golden leaves. Ruby brushed the colourful leaves off the bench and sat down. However peaceful the place had been, it couldn’t calm Ruby down. He kept reliving all the events that had taken place today and somehow all the clever and witty remarks were forming in his mind. 
“Early autumn is the best time of year, don’t you think?”
A soft voice suddenly awoke Ruby from reminiscence. A ginger old man with a pleasant smile on his face was sitting next to him.
“Er… I guess.”
“I deeply apologize for the intrusion. But I believe that one simply cannot feel sad on such a day, and you do not look that cheerful, young man.”
Ruby took a better look at this man. His appearance was rather peculiar; the man had an old-fashioned blue coat on, yellow bow tie and green tartan trousers. His bright ginger hair was a bit too long and shaggy. His hands were fiddling with some tiny object that Ruby could not see properly. But the strangest thing was his eyes – they looked as transparent as air. Ruby gazed into these round eyes and felt absolutely sure that he could confide in this man. 
“Well... Today’s my birthday and it’s the lousiest day I’ve had in my whole life.”
“Oh, a birthday!” The man exclaimed brightly paying no attention to Ruby’s lamentations. “I do love birthdays! The day you were born… A magical day indeed. You know, many outstanding things had happened to people on their birthdays. Did you get any good presents?”
“Well, not those I wanted, really,” Ruby confessed.
“And what was it that you wanted?”
Ruby evaded the answer as well as looking into the old man’s face. He was too ashamed to tell. It was so stupid. He tried to avoid answering, but he could feel better than see the transparent eyes watching him. Ruby caught sight of the thing that the man was holding in his hands – it was a spider-shaped brooch.
“There is no reason to be embarrassed. The more you speak out your wishes, the better chance is there that they’ll come true.”
Ruby thought that it was a naïve thing to say, but answered.
“You know, some kids want to have dogs, pets and stuff… And their parents won’t let them. It’s sort of the same with me, but… You see, I’ve always wanted to have…” His voice faltered.
“Yes?”
“To have a dragon. I know it’s stupid,” he added hastily. “I know they don’t exist. It’s just that some want a dog or a cat and I… I really want a dragon.”
Ruby looked at the old man. His eyes were smiling playfully.
“Are you sure that they don’t exist?”
 “Well, it’s a fact, isn’t it?”
“There is a fact that people have never seen dragons. But that does not mean that they don’t exist. You know…” The old man’s voice suddenly became conspiratorial. “I personally believe that there is a place where everything we believe exists. And I’ve heard people say that if you follow the harvest moon your wishes may come true, if they are noble and honourable enough.”
Ruby now felt completely at a loss. The man, however, continued speaking, paying no attention to the boy’s perplexed stare.
 “The harvest moon is the most powerful at midnight. When it emerges, bright and fully round as a coin, its light reveals a most peculiar boat with four floors, three smokestacks, two paddle-wheels and a big square flag. This boat might take you to… Well, I won’t reveal all the secrets.”
Ruby stared at the man, thinking that quite possibly he was mental. Or that it was a practical joke. But something inside him did not want to give up on the idea that someplace dragons truly existed. And his curiosity couldn’t help but ask.
“But where does the boat appear?”
“Not where, but when is the question, my boy!” The man said happily, still fiddling the spider-shaped brooch in his wrinkled hands. “This year's harvest moon is only a fortnight away.”
The old man winked and stood up. There were questions that Ruby wanted to ask him, but he was too afraid that the man will burst out laughing or everything will appear to be a joke. He couldn’t overcome his fears. 
“I’m glad I’ve met you,” the old man smiled. “What is your name?”
The boy hated the name “Ruben” so much. But could he call himself “Ruby” to this strange old man? No. It sounded too plain and ordinary to say to an old man in a yellow bow tie. So Ruby said the first thing that came to his mind. 
“It’s Rubeus.”
“Ah, it means “red”. Suits you very much. Well, happy birthday, Rubeus. It was nice talking to you.”
The old man turned to go. Ruby looked at the spot where he had just been sitting. The spider-shaped brooch was lying next to him. 
“Excuse me, you’ve forgotten your...”
Ruby looked up. The old man was no longer there.






Ch 2 
The Last Day of the Fantaglorium

As the days passed, the small still port town Ruby lived in, was as small and still as always. The usual September routine had just started but it had already been getting on his nerves. For the first several days after the meeting with the old man, he never left Ruby's mind. The boy was reluctunt, however, to go anywhere near the port, being terrifyied that whoever came with the idea of the joke would see him, and he would becoma a laughing stock. However great the fear was, the curiosity of the 12-year-old boy was even greater. So, eventually the day came when Ruby went to the port to see if there was anything similar to what the old man described. 
The port was almost empty, with a couple of boats parked. Ruby repeated the attempt the next day: nothing. Ruby coulsn't remember properly how the man had described the boat, but he was sure he said something about four floors and two paddle-wheels, and there were no such kinds of boat. Several times he asked people on the port if they knew or heard anything of the kind, but people only shrugged and shook their heads. 
“Of course!” It came to him suddenly. “He mentioned the moon,  didn't he?”
With this conlclusion being made, the boy made several attempts at coming to the port during the night, but this didn't work out – no beautiful four-storied boats were seen anywhere near. 
For the next several days he kept coming to the port at night; in time his visits became more rare and then there came the day when he forgot all about it. “It must have been somebiody's joke”, he said to himself, though couldn't quite believe it. Probably Ruby wouldn't have forgotten about the curious man so quickly if it wasn't for the last day of the Fantaglorium.
He had set his mind to go there alone and today was the day to make his brilliat plan happen. He would come home as usual and, while his mother is away at her desk, working, he would creep into her bedroom and take some money, just enough for the ticket. Ruby felt a bit ashamed stealing from his mother like that, and realized that he was wrong to do it, but he couldn't help it. 
That day in school Ruby was thinking his plan over, feeling slightly nervous. The new school year had started bringinf the old ways back. Just like always, with the ring of the bell all of the children fled the classroom as one and scattered again on a street, ready to play. Just like always, Ruby was the one to remain in the abandoned classroom. Just like always, he had his pencil in his hand and was drawing, paying no attention to the cheery noises from the playgroud. Drawing always managed to help him – it was soothing all his worries and driving away all the fears.
“Ruby? Why don't you join everyone outside? The autumn is promised to be rather cold this year, these might be the last warm weeks we will enjoy.”
It was miss Blaine, his Literature teacher who adressed him. She was one of those teachers who care about their students a lot; sometimes even too much. She was allright, Ruby thought, but the pity in her eyes, that always appeared whenever she talked to him, annoyed him too much to be honest with her.
“Oh, my leg hurts, I can't really run,” he lied. He was never a good liar, his eyes always betrayed him, so he quickly lowered them on the desk. His eyes met the eyes of a red dragon that Ruby was drawing. It was done in pencil, but Ruby somehow was sure, that the dragon was of bright red colour.
“It's really lovely,” miss Blaine said, peeking over Ruby's shoulder.  “It looks so real! Where did you learn to draw?”
Ruby wasn't used to receiving compliments on his drawings, mainly because he never showed them to anyone. He blushed. 
“Nowhere, I just started drwaing and that's it.”
“You are actually good at it,” she said. It made Ruby feel good about himself. 
“Thanks. At least I'm good at something,” he muttered.
“What do you mean?”
“Well -- I'm not really a promising student.” 
“Oh, Ruben, school marks are important, of course, but it's much, much more important to do something you like, to have a hobby, you know?”
Probably she was right. Ruby smiled to miss Blaine and thanked her once again.
On his way home he was thinking about what miss Blaine had said. Ruby had always thought himself to be iferiour to his peers, because almost all of them were good at at least one subject at school. And even those who had bad marks, were good at something, or at least popular. Ruby was anything but popular. The only thing he did well (or thought he did well) was drawing. He rarely showed his drawing to anyone, except his family, and the three members of his family couldn't quite understand why would anyone draw anything, which is not real. “Why don't you draw a bowl of fruit? Or perhaps a still-life, and then we could hang it on the wall.”  his mother would say. And sometimes Ruby did draw a bowl a fruit or a still-life, just to make his mother happy.
That day she was in a bad mood when he came home. She looked a bit worried and Ruby didn't have to wait long in order to find out why. 
“I want to talk to you, Ruben,” she sat down on a sofa and invited her son to join her. “How was your day?”
“Good.”
“Did you play with your friends today?”
“Oh yes,” he answered, trying to sound convincingly.
“Ruben, I know you don't have many friends,” she started, but Ruby cut her short.
“I have friends! I told you about Ronnie and others, we had lots of fun today,” he said hastily and looked at his shoes.
“Allright,” his mother sighed. “I'm glad to hear this,” she patted Ruby's curly hair and stood up. That was it. She was going to her room and it was the time for Ruby to take the money and head for the Fantaglorium. He checked that the hall and the mother's room were empty, creeped into her room, took the money and went outside of the house. Simple. 
Some time later he found himself standing in line to enter the fantasy fair with the ticket gripped tightly in his hand. 





Ch 3
The Midnight Steamer

Ruby was lying on his bed holding the brooch. It was a beautifully made silver spider with what seemed to be green jewels instead of the spider’s eyes. While looking at the curious spider Ruby as if heard the ginger man’s voice whispering the same words: “follow the harvest moon…” 
The boy stood up still holding the brooch and looked into the mirror. He was a year older, twelve now, though he didn’t look much different. A flimsy boy of ten by his looks stared at him with his brown and rather big eyes. The freckles on his nose didn’t really add to his manliness. His mother couldn’t understand why he was so thin and small. He had a healthy appetite, spent plenty of time outside, and was a good runner. Mrs. Sleeper never gave up hoping that he would grow tall and strong one of these days. “Just like Ethan,” she usually said. Casting the last glance at his tiny figure, Ruby put the brooch into his pocket and went downstairs. It was dinnertime.
The Sleeper family usually had dinner on the porch of their two-storied house with a dark green roof. The house had a low fence around it and a neglected garden in the backyard. It was not the sort of house to miss; it was an unwelcoming and cold place. Six years ago the porch was filled with the pleasant fragrance of the flowers; it was warming, full of plants and decorations but these days had passed away along with Mr. Sleeper, the father of the family. 
Lots of things had changed after he was gone. The mother had buried herself in work, forgetting all about the creatures who needed her the most – her children. Grace had ceased smiling and laughing, her eyes lost the shining in them. Ethan had taken all the care of the family on his shoulders, too young and unexperienced to cope with the task. And Ruby, the youngest of them, had sunk into the world of loneliness. After the father died, there was no one to take care of the family or of the house. Both grew dim. There was one splendid thing about the house, though. It stood on an eminence and opened on a stunning view of the sea. The air was always full of a mild salty smell. 
The mother, Ethan and Grace were already seated. Being a silent dinner, it wasn't much different from other dinners the Sleeper family had. Though their mother was an excellent cook, her delicious food did not appeal to Ruby that day; he was staring at it blankly. 
“Ruben, why don’t you eat?” His mother asked. It was clear from her tone that she was feeling guilty for the ruined birthday. 
 “I’m not really hungry,” Ruby lied. His stomach growled disapprovingly, but he couldn’t make himself eat.
His mother looked at him with a worried look and wanted to proceed with questions, but Ethan had cut in.
“By the way, I’ll have an archery competition tomorrow in the morning.”
“Oh really! That is great!”
“Yeah, I was practicing a lot lately and I’ll be aiming at the first place.”
Their mother looked at her eldest son in admiration. Ethan was her pride and joy. He was pleasant-looking, tall, he did everything right. He was just like their mother – dark blond hair, hard-working, ambitious and a bit haughty.
“But you already have first place in last year archery competition,” Ruby said. “Why do you participate for the second time?” His elder brother looked at him, playing with the fork.
“If you had ever won anything, you probably would have understood it.”
 “Aren’t you tired of first places?” Grace asked wearily. “You already got A’s in every subject possible. You are so boring.” Ethan only smiled and his smile was full of self-confidence.
Grace and Ruby were the opposites of their mother and Ethan – they both had dark curly hair as their father. Grace was even more difficult to understand than Ruby – she was a bored and friendless creature who never spoke of her feelings. Looking at her, Ruby couldn’t remember the last time he saw her smiling. The boy looked away from the table and glanced at the sea. He could now hear the placid sound of the tide and children’s laugh in a distance that made him feel sad and forgotten.  
When the dinner was over, Ruby helped his mother to clear up, mentioning that he was about to go out. He didn’t ask permission, nor did his mother want it. She nodded. Without even thinking he strolled to his favourite spot near the shore and not far from the port. It was an open place, but he felt there as safe and protected as ever. It was getting dark early as it was late September, and twinkling stars were appearing in the sky one by one.
“What a lovely family dinner...” the boy muttered to himself. “Rubeus.” He added after some hesitation and looked up. A perfectly round moon was already high above the horizon, shining upon the town, a little too bright for this early hour. “Full moon…” he whispered. What if the old man was telling the truth? Was it possible that the boat would appear at midnight? A boat that no one could see unless they know about its existence? The idea seemed absurd.  But once again something inside him was longing to stay and to make sure.  
He looked at his watch. Nine o’clock.
Ruby sat on a big rock still warm from the midday sun, watching the sunset and listening to the tide. For some people it would have been an agony – sitting for several hours, doing nothing; but not for Ruby. His nose was full of salt freshness, ears full was the tide noise and eyes watching the stars. In a while it started to get a bit cold near the sea. Luckily Ruby took his green sweater along with him. He put it on.
A quarter to eleven. 
The sky was full of stars that night and Ruby’s eyes caught a glimpse of a blue star somewhere in the distance. First the full moon, now the star… The only missing thing was the boat, Ruby thought. And the instant he thought of it, he noticed something moving from the distance; or was it just his imagination? No, he couldn't just imagine it. The boy looked more carefully. It was a steamboat! Stately, old-fashioned, and exquisite looking. The port was almost empty at this late hour. Ruby's curiosity was stronger than him, and it was urging him to head towards the steamer. 
As he was getting closer to the port, Ruby could see the steamboat properly. It was just as the gigner old man had described it. It had four floors. Heavy clouds of smoke were evaporating from three long smokestacks. Two large paddle-wheels at the back and a square flag in the centre. Ruby looked closer at the flag – the blue background on which there were what seemed to be 4 conjoined ovals with a circle in the middle. Ruby thought it might be a flower with four petals. For several minutes the boy was gazing at the fluttering flag, forgetting where he was, as if enchanted. When he finally came back to earth, the question popped up in his mind: “And what do I do now?”  
He gave some thought to it and finally made up his mind. His father had always taught him that “nothing is lost for asking” so the only thing there was to do was to approach the steamboat. And that Ruby did, with his knees shaking a little. Because, all in all, he was terrified.
A frowning man with long skinny legs and arms was guarding the entrance. The deck was half-empty. Ruby's attention was caught by a teenage girl in a bright purple skirt who was telling something to a very tall man, gesticulating wildly and without pausing to stop. 
“And who are ya, boy?” The frowning man barked. He didn't sound too polite. “I not see you before.”
“What? I'm... I'm just looking... I wanted to ask you something.”
“Then ask hurry, we leave soon.” 
“Where are you going?” Ruby asked perhaps too loudly.
“Well, ya know if ya come here, yeah?”
“I dunno, I've just heard... about some boat...”
The man's eyes narrowed suspiciously. He looked more closely at the boy.
“Heard where? Who are ya, boy?” 
“I'm Ruby... Rubeus. I've met an old man today and he told me about a boat.” Ruby was jabbering now. “Ginger man... spider-brooch… He said dragons existed... And a boat, and... And... I guess it was a joke, I just wanted... to make sure.” He finished in a bitter voice.
“Ginger man in bow tie? With a brooch?”
“Yes!” Ruby exclaimed. “Spider shaped brooch!” Ruby hastily took the small spider with emerald eyes out of his pocket and showed it to the man. The latter looked surprised now. 
“Sofus...” He whispered. “So he tell ya about this boat, ya say?”
“Yes... kind of,” Ruby nodded. “What is sofus?” 
“Well then, come on board if ya dare.” The man said in a suddenly mild voice, ignoring Ruby's question. “I’m Cebren, find me if ya have questions. Here your ticket, not lose it, your cabin number writed here. Any luggage?” He even made an attempt to smile, though it looked more like a grimace. 
“No... No luggage. Thank you, Cebren.” Ruby answered, took a ticket and stepped on the bridge that was leading him to the steamboat. 
It was cold outside; the wind was blowing severely near the shore. But the moment Ruby moved towards the steamer he felt so warm inside, as if he had just had a cup of warm cocoa. He felt cozy and no worries were troubling him.  
Back at home nobody noticed that the youngest family member hadn’t come home that night. 






















Ch 4
The Lost Isle of Pendleton

The moment the steamer had sailed out, all the troubles came back. 
Where is he going? How long will this trip take? What about his family, what if they are worried? He doesn't have anything with him, not even a toothbrush! He was going to an unknown place, absolutely alone. The good thing was that he had some money with him, taken from his money-box. He suddenly realised that it could all still be a part of somebody's cruel joke. The image of the fly stuck in a huge spider's web flashed in Ruby's mind. He needed answers. 
The boy looked around. Most of the people were standing in groups, chatting. They didn’t seem to care that the wind was freezing: most of them were dressed in shirts and summer sandals. Close to him the same girl in the purple skirt was standing with the same tall man. She stopped chattering for a second and Ruby decided to take a chance.
“Excuse me,” he hurried towards them. “Can you tell me, how long is it until... our destination?”
“Not long,” the girl answered in a lively voice. “We’ll be there early in the morning.”
“Oh...”
“What's your name? I've never seen you before,” the girl beamed. She seemed to be a girl of sixteen, with auburn hair, wearing a radiant smile and big glasses that made her look like an owl. 
“Rubeus,” answered Ruby more confident this time. 
“I'm Emmaline. And this is my father.” She pointed at the tall man. He had rather sharp features, as if his face was made out of triangles and squares. He looked tired and a bit irritated but as he nodded to Ruby, the boy couldn't help feeling respect for the man. He turned away and looked at the sky. The man seemed to be deep in thought, his thick eyebrows knitted together and his face concerned. His heavy black moustache only added to the tall man’s importance. He didn’t seem to care what her daughter was saying or who the newcomer was.
“Rubeus? Are you all right?” Emmaline's voice sounded abrupt. 
“What? Yes...”
“I've asked you, how come you're on the boat? You're not from Pendleton, it's obvious. I don't remember your face and I have quite good memory.” She smiled again.
“Pendleton?” 
“That's how the place is called. Don't you know anything?”
“No... Nothing,” Ruby admitted. 
“Okay, Rubeus, I'll help you to adjust when we're there. I know that new people come to Pendleton sometimes, but I've never seen any!” Ruby wanted her to tell more about “Pendleton”, but the girl was too fast. “How did you find out about the boat?”
For the second time Ruby told his story and for the second time the attitude to him had changed completely after the mentioning of the old man. Emmaline's father finally turned around, his expression surprised.
“You must be a very special person...” The man's voice was deep and low. 
“I don't think so...” Ruby started. 
“You must be!” Emmaline exclaimed. “Such things don't just happen to anyone.”
Ruby thought about her words. Could it be that something unusual and interesting had finally happened in his life? Though feeling anxious, Ruby couldn’t help being exited by the beauty of the sea and the freshness of the midnight air. The only source of light was the moon in the sky and the port lights that were slowly moving away. He couldn’t help imagining the place he was going to. Pendleton…
“Emmaline,” he turned to the girl. “Could you tell me more about this place?”
The girl’s face changed in a second, it was vivid and even more smiley.
“Naturally! Do you believe in magic, Rubeus?”
Ruby smiled, remembering his drawings.
“More than you think.”
“Then you’ll love it here! Magic is part of who we are. You and me and everyone. In Pendleton people aren't afraid of it, they accept it and they practice it. Magic is all around Pendleton.”
“What is it like? Pendleton?”
“You see, it is a big island. The greatest thing about it is that people don’t know that it exists, it’s magically hidden. This is why people from our lands have always been calling it the Lost Isle.” She halted for a moment. “The Lost Isle of Pendleton,” she uttered slowly and lovingly. “It is divided into four parts. Look at the flag.”
“Yes, looks like petals.”
“Well, yes, although it’s not a flower, of course,” she giggled and Ruby blushed. “It is the symbol of Pendleton; it consists of four parts, four settlements. We arrive from the East, in Airend, that’s where my father and I live. You’ll love it, especially since you haven’t been to any other places before. Clouds fly very low there and you’ll meet all sorts of magical creatures and the buildings --”
“Wait, what?” He interrupted her, his eyes wide open and his heart pumping. “Creatures? Like… dragons?”
“Well, dragons are --”
The girl was interrupted again.
“Emmaline, it’s time for bed.”
“Yes, father.” She looked back at Ruby. “We arrive at sunrise. I promise, I’ll help you tomorrow. Sleep well.”
She followed her father into the cabin.
Ruby had never felt so wide-awake in his life. Was it possible to fall asleep? Today, tomorrow, ever?
Sometime later as it was getting chilly, all the people started to go inside. Ruby looked at the ticket that Cebren had given to him. Big black letters said: “Midnight voyage to Pendleton, the Lost Isle. September, 19. Cabin №218”. Ruby headed to his cabin; it was large and welcoming. He lay down on the bed fully dressed, feeling nervous but exited. Somehow he didn’t miss his family. On the contrary, he wanted to go further, to see this new place. Since the moment he had met the ginger old man, Ruby kept remembering stories his father had always told him. They were full of magic, wonders and, of course, fantastic creatures. And now the only thing Ruby was afraid of, was falling asleep and waking up in his own soft bed, realizing that it had all been a dream. 

***

Somebody was knocking on the door. Ruby woke up abruptly – it felt as if he has been sleeping for no more than one minute. He opened the door. It was Cebren with his arms and legs still as thin and long as they have been the day before.
“So it wasn’t a dream…” Ruby mumbled still half sleeping.
“We arrive soon,” he barked and moved to the next door.
Ruby’s head felt heavy. He could vaguely remember his dreams – the red dragon running after his mother or his mother following the red dragon... He stepped outside of his cabin. His nostrils filled with the salty smell of the sea. The hour was still early; the sun has just begun to rise. It was a beautiful, foggy and cool morning and Ruby went forward, trying to see through the dense obscurity. He had almost given up his hopes when the gloom had cleared away and he finally saw it. 
Not that far from the steamer a land was seen. A familiar flag was playing with the wind and a most imposing white building was towering at a distance. Though difficult it was to tear his eyes away, Ruby tried to find Emmaline. All around him people were coming from every corner of the ship, crowding near the steamer stairs. Ruby joined the majority, trifling with his sleeve. The shore and the great building were coming closer. There were some people on the quay, not many though. A sign with the word “PENDLETON” in blue and green was hovering above them. 
Ruby stared at it, unable to believe his own eyes. Before he could even think anything, somebody touched his shoulder.
“Fancy, isn’t it?” smiled Emmaline.
“It’s flying! The sign is flying!”
“Of course it’s flying – it’s Airend,” she said as if it was the most logical thing in the world. “You’ll see lots of things hovering here.”
The place they were approaching was absolutely fascinating. Apart from the majestic white building, waving and smiling people, hovering sign, Ruby saw white and fluffy-looking clouds flying so low, that even not-that-tall Ruby could have touched them. Trees and flowers everywhere, curious circular birds not high in the sky, golden leaves falling to the ground and, surprisingly, dandelions still blossoming. 
The steamer reached the quay and all at once people started moving. Ruby, Emmaline and her father followed their example. In their turn, people on the quay started speaking and crying all at once.
“Douglas, my boy, was your trip enjoyable?” An old woman tried to hug a tiny boy who was hiding behind his mother’s back.
“Hiya!” A dark-skinned curly girl was waving to a pale young man who kissed her the moment his feet touched the ground. 
Ruby was gazing all around, trying to perceive everything at once. A couple of minutes ago he was sure that there were only a few people on the steamer as well as on the quay; however, now it was crammed with people. He tried not to lose Emmaline from sight. It seemed that apart from him, Emmaline and her father were the only ones without anyone meeting them. He had just wanted to say this to Emmaline when a plump man addressed her father. 
“Good morning, sofus Dwire. It’s nice to see you. You have been going away a lot lately.”
“Yes, I have. Good to see you too,” Emmaline’s father, apparently named Dwire, sounded polite and unruffled.
Sofus… Ruby had definitely heard it somewhere before. But where?
“Do you proceed to the Committee House at once?”
“Yes; I believe, we should --”
“Welcome to Airend, Pendleton residents and newcomers!” A loud male voice appeared out of nowhere. Emmaline pointed at the circular objects, flying all over the quay, which Ruby had taken for birds. He guessed that they were speakers. 
“We are opening our arms whether you stay here or proceed to any other settlement. If you are looking for accommodation, our gwellings are opened 24 hours a day. Please note that all the newcomers must proceed to the registration in the Committee House. For further inquiries do consult our Welcome Board.”
Another hovering sign indicated the Welcome Board. While Dwire continued talking to the plump man, Emmaline took Ruby closer to it.
“It’s flying… naturally,” he said.
It was big and beautifully decorated board with blue and green patterns. A phrase was written there in a neat and fancy font. Ruby read it.
“Welcome to Airend. Here dwell those whose heart is open and mind is wise.”
Ruby had barely had time to digest the phrase when -- PUFF! It disappeared in clouds of smoke. Ruby blinked. The board was still there but without any words. Instead, a picture of a figure appeared. It was neither human, nor air: it had slender body, with its limbs and hair turning into mist. The inscription said: “A Sylph – our guardian and symbol”.
“Every settlement has its guardian-creature,” Emmaline explained as the picture puffed and disappeared too. The board was showing the temperature now:
“We expect splendid weather this week, no rains, no sunburns. Enjoy the warm days and don’t forget your scarf!”
Ruby turned to Emmaline again, who was putting her purple scarf on. “Do they really exist? This sylph and other symbol-creatures…” Ruby was thinking about dragons being a symbol of some Pendleton settlement.
“Guardian-creatures,” Emmaline corrected him. “Nobody knows, but the legends hold that they did exist many centuries ago.”
The weather forecast changed to the map of Pendleton. Four petals. The right one was signed “Airend” and marked with blue dot. The left one was signed “Waterend”, the one above – “Earthend” and below – “Firend”. In the center Ruby saw a black cross.
The map puffed and changed into a map of Airend, then to the phrase again. “Welcome to Airend. Here dwell those whose heart is open and mind is wise.”
“It’s… magical!” Ruby said to himself. Still staring at the Welcome Board he caught sight of Dwire approaching. 
“Rubeus. As I believe you’ve heard, you must proceed to the registration. The Committee House is quite near,” he pointed at the white building that had fascinated the boy so much. Now only the top of it was seen. “My daughter will go home now, but I will accompany you. Emmaline, I will see you at home.” He said barely looking at his daughter. 
“Yes, father,” she replied stiffly. “I’ll see you soon,” she added to Ruby in a low voice, smiling again. Ruby watched her leave. He was really hoping that she would come back. Despite being very pleasant and helpful, Dwire was also sort of frightening. And a frightening companion is not what a person is looking for when he is that far away from home.
 With the words “follow me” Dwire marched away from the port, up the long cobblestone street. Though it was rather narrow it still gave Ruby a cozy feeling. The sun had practically risen and it was shining down the cobblestone. Ruby had noticed that there were absolutely no cars, neither standing, nor driving. The only reminder of a vehicle was a tramway track going all the way up the road. Dwire and Ruby walked past tiny brick houses with brightly coloured roofs, two-storied houses with ornate balconies, many shops and studios with fancy shop-windows, hovering signs saying “Potter’s Workshop” and “The Collector Boutique”, a pub called “At Martin’s” and an inviting café “Franny’s” with wooden tables outside. 
Apart from the absence of cars the other thing that surprised Ruby was the trees – they were everywhere and many of them were untouched by the autumn yellowness at all. After walking for about three minutes in complete silence, they turned right. It was the same cobblestone street, only a bit wider. There too Ruby saw no people or cars. Ruby had just wanted to admire the stillness of the town (just to break the awkward silence, really) when suddenly he heard an odd sound, something between a “meow” and a “moo”. Ruby halted and started to look around, trying to find the source of the sound. He had seen a lot of weird things that day and he was almost sure that it was impossible to be even more surprised. Almost sure. 
Behind an oak tree appeared four most extraordinary creatures Ruby had ever seen. Three of them looked like camels but with an enormously long giraffe’s neck. Two of these long-necked creatures were practically of the same size (about three and a half metres) and colour (brown with a ginger tail), but the third one was relatively small – it was a bit taller than Dwire with the beginning of his yet thin neck being right on the level of Ruby’s eyes. The creature wasn’t exactly brown yet – it was straw-coloured. It was the smallest one who had made the funny noise, which now seemed adorable to Ruby. 
“It is just a baby, isn’t it?” He smiled and looked at Dwire. The latter wasn’t smiling.
“Yes. It is the family of Shedlynns. The cub is hungry and its parents are helping it to reach the leaves and fruit of the Hackberry tree.” Ruby nodded, pretending to know what a Hackberry tree was. “And this is an Archirudder.”
Ruby glanced over at the fourth creature, standing behind the three Shedlynns, in the shade. It looked more like a bird, a breathtakingly beautiful bird. It was standing on its legs, covered in feathers just like its wings. Its body was smooth of blue and green colour. The bird was constantly moving its head and looking at Ruby curiously. The tail of the Archirudder seemed to be an enormous iridescent feather, playing in the sun. It looked stunning. 
“Rubeus, we must hurry.”
It seemed impossible to tear his eyes away from the bird, but he had to do it. “I bet it looks fantastic when it's flying”, said Ruby in a low voice. As if hearing the boy, the bird spread its giant wings and jumped. Or rather, Ruby thought it had jumped. He looked up. The glorious bird was now flying higher and higher, waving its wings and the giant rainbow-coloured tail. The Archirudder looked stunning in the blue sky. It could fly, indeed. 
The white building was practically in front of them. Dwire and Ruby moved ahead. Dwire paid no attention to the Shedlynns, but Ruby halted and said “bye” to the creatures. The baby repeated its “meow-moo” sound, and it seemed to Ruby that the biggest one had bowed. Possibly it just shook off the leaf that had fallen on its head.  
Finally, they reached the Committee House. It looked even more imposing when closer. It resembled a Gothic cathedral with its flying buttresses and narrow spires. Yet, it was much simpler and cozier. Ruby could now make out the sylph statues on the arch that led to the entrance and the familiar blue and green patterns. Dwire had barely touched the big wooden doors when they flew open. A ginger man with an old-fashioned blue coat on, a yellow bow tie and green tartan trousers stood right in front of them. His transparent eyes were smiling playfully.
“Welcome to Pendleton, Rubeus!”




Ch 5
To the cliff top

Back at home that morning was busy. The mother woke up early and started packing her suitcase. Brushing her hair with one hand and putting dresses with another she thought of her children. Her business trip will take more than two weeks. Declining the idea of a nanny or someone to watch over them seemed reasonable some time ago. Now, however, doubts started to creep into her sleepy mind. Her thoughts were suddenly interrupted by the noise from the kitchen. The mother zipped up the suitcase and went downstairs.
“Up so early?” she asked her eldest son.
“I didn’t sleep too well,” Ethan answered, stretching and yawning. “So you’re already leaving?” 
“I am,” she poured herself some coffee. “As you are the most responsible, Ethan, I want you to look over Grace and Ruben and to keep everything in order.”
“Don’t worry about us, we’ll be just fine. And I promise you that we won’t ruin the house.”
“I hope so,” she replied seriously.
After drinking her coffee and thanking Ethan for taking her suitcase downstairs, the mother turned to her son:
“Well goodbye, sweetheart, I’ll call you in the evening,” she kissed him on the cheek and went outside. “Tell Grace and Ruben that I already miss them!” she shouted from the car.
“I bet she does,” Grace’s voice came from the stairs. She came into the kitchen softly. “Has she at least said anything about your archery competition?”
Ethan blinked.
“She didn’t.”
The kitchen was filled with the smell of coffee and sadness that morning. 

***

And at that precise second, when the mother’s car had set off, Ruby and Dwire entered the Committee House. Ruby couldn’t help staring at the old man with bright ginger hair. He was here! The man who had told him about the boat!
“And good morning to you, sofus Dwire.” The old man nodded to Dwire respectfully. To Ruby’s surprise, Dwire answered the man with a bow, saying:
“Good morning, sofus Favian.”
Ruby stared at them stupidly. 
“You know each other?” He asked. What a dumb thing to ask, he thought. Nobody replied though and the thought flashed in Ruby’s mind that, possibly, he might go insane of all the unexpectedness of that day.
The smile played on the old man’s face, apparently named Favian, when he led Ruby and Dwire inside. The hall was enormous and empty at that early hour. Everything – the walls, the floor, the ceiling was made out of white and blue marble. Ruby’s attention was caught by the reception-desk that was moving on its tiny legs and seemed to be talking to itself. The three of them moved forward towards the elevator doors. Along the way they met beautiful statues – most of them were sylphs, but some of them were green-haired mermaids with blue marble waves around them; dwarves in red hats and white beards; big long snakes with something golden on the tip of their tails. There were hundreds of them, though none looked the same. Not for the first time Ruby noticed that everything in Pendleton seemed to be welcoming, despite the size. So was the enormous hall of the Committee House. Probably it was due to the warm light that emitted from the millions of tiny lamps hanging from the walls and ceiling, twinkling as if they were stars. 
Two men and the boy entered the elevator. It was big enough to hold around 30 people without them being too close to each other. Having looked up, Ruby and saw a dome ceiling with the same lights twinkling. The elevator took them to the seventeenth floor (Ruby tried to remember if either of the men pushed the button and it seemed to him that neither did). Throughout their journey neither Dwire nor Favian uttered a word which made Ruby feel uncomfortable and even more nervous. Who knows what this “newcomers registration” means. Ruby was bewildered; he was afraid he wouldn’t be able to speak properly. They left the elevator and moved along a wide corridor. When they reached another big wooden door, Favian pushed it. Both he and Dwire were now dressed in blue robes which, Ruby was sure, were not the same clothes they were wearing in the elevator. They stepped inside.
The hall was large and circular with grayish-blue walls. The two windows were large and circular as well, filling the room with golden morning light. Ruby caught a glimpse of fluffy clouds and bird flocks somewhere in the sky. Though the room was spacious, there wasn’t much furniture inside. All Ruby could see was a comfortably looking sofa, seven beautiful old-fashioned chairs, and an oval table between them. Five of the chairs were taken by men in blue robes. Dwire and Favian moved forward to occupy the vacant seats. Ruby glanced at the five other men. All of them looked respectful. In the centre sat a sinister-looking man with a gray beard. He looked the oldest, yet power and vigour were radiating from him. He was the one who spoke to Ruby.
“Please, be seated.” 
He pointed at the sofa. Ruby went towards it and sat. He stumbled twice while doing so.
“We are the Committee of the Magi and we welcome you on the Lost Isle of Pendleton. We are the rulers of this land. The residents call us “Sofus”. So shall do the visitors.”
So that’s what “sofus” meant! Ruby had remembered now – the thin-legged Cebren had said this word when Ruby showed him a brooch in the shape of a spider. The brooch! The thought struck Ruby as fast and unexpected as lightning. He looked closer at the seven men – all of them had small spiders pinned to their blue robes. All except for Favian, since his brooch was in Ruby’s pocket. 
“I am sofus Alem. Let me introduce you to the other magi.” He pointed to the three men sitting on his right. “sofus Favian (familiar transparent eyes winked at Ruby), sofus Dwire (Emmaline’s father, though, showed no sign of knowing him), Sofus Navon (a pleasant-looking young man, who smiled at Ruby).” Then Alem pointed to the men on his left side. “sofus Shann (a gloomy black-bearded man), sofus Conroy (a round man with a funny mustache) and sofus Vivek (a scarred and frowning man next to him).”
“Now, please, state your name and the purpose of visiting the Lost Isle of Pendleton.” The old man in the centre, Alem, continued.
“My name is Rubeus Sleeper.” Ruby’s voice was trembling slightly. “I am here because…” He stopped, not knowing what to say. Why was he here? His brown eyes met the old man’s stare and pleaded for help. Favian spoke, but not after waiting for several long seconds.
“Sofus Alem, it was I who invited young Rubeus here.”
Six heads turned in the direction of the speaker.
“It was the boy’s birthday and I’ve decided to give him a present. A chance to explore our world.”
The heads continued to stare.
“I believe that the fact that he saw the Midnight Steamer proves the boy’s pure heart and intentions, doesn’t it?”
“It does, indeed,” sofus Alem nodded, still looking sinister. “Well, Rubeus Sleeper, you may stay here for as long as you want and as long as you obey our rules. You may stay in a gwelling, we will book you a room there. I believe you require a guide to help you and to provide you with all the information?”
“No need, sofus Alem,” Dwire said before Ruby could answer. “My daughter will guide him.”
“Splendid.” Alem’s expression was as stiff as ever. “You may go now, Mr. Sleeper. Thank you. The registration is over.”
The seven men stood up at once. Ruby did too, still feeling uneasy but extremely excited. He could stay here for as long as he wanted! He felt calm for the first time in many, many hours. 
Ruby saw Dwire walking towards him, his thick eyebrows shadowing his eyes. The boy wasn’t really looking forward to walking all this way again in uneasy silence. To his relief, the ginger old man hurried towards Dwire with his graceful and yet confident stride. The two men exchanged some phrases and strutted towards Ruby.  
“Rubeus, sofus Favian promised to take care of you, so we shall part for now,” Emmaline’s father said. Something about him changed, but Ruby couldn’t understand what. The man turned to go, but halted for a second and then turned around to face Ruby once again. “You said your surname was… Sleeper, wasn’t it?”
“Yes,” Ruby nodded. “Why?”
“No reason. I’ll see you around, Rubeus.” He turned to go for the second time and left.  
Ruby and Favian were already on the first floor, when a lively voice called them. It was a man from the Committee, probably the youngest of them. He was wearing a pork pie hat, a white shirt and a vest. (Ruby took a glance at the ginger old man just to make sure that he was in his usual tartan trousers and a bow tie again.) The young man was moving towards them slowly, with the help of a walking stick.
“Navon, I see your injury is getting better,” Favian nodded at the young man.
“It is, thank you,” Navon replied with a bow. Ruby was wondering if he had to bow to the ginger man as well, since everyone around him seemed to do it.
“I wanted to say hello to young Rubeus here,” Navon turned to Ruby. “So, have you seen anything interesting in Pendleton so far?”
“I’ve seen only interesting things so far,” Ruby answered frankly.
“Well, that’s wonderful! I hope you enjoy it even more, this place has a lot to offer.” 
 “Oh, by the way, Navon,” Favian said. “Astrophilius is in Airend again. He wanted to speak to you. He looked weary.”
“Hm… Thank you.” The smile on Navon’s face faded. “I have to go now. Good luck!” The man left with the bow. Ruby followed the limping figure with his eyes.
“Rubeus, I hope you don’t mind if we walk a little?” Favian asked.
“Of course not,” the boy answered, once again thinking whether he should bow or not.
They finally reached the heavy wooden doors that led to the street. The sun was high in the sky and there were lots of people now hurrying to and fro. Ruby saw the road, where Emmaline’s father and he came from, but Favian pointed the other way – there a very wide and long street lay ahead. 
“Let’s go this way. It is the longest Airend road; it leads to the highest peak of our settlement, Briareus Cliff. Once we’re up there, we can see the beautiful view of Airend.”
And so, they strolled along the wide road. In the distance Ruby saw the circular black birds, that weren’t really birds, as he already knew, but the funny speakers. On his left a long-haired man was resting on a puffy cloud.
“What’s the name of this street?” Ruby had so many questions in his head, but somehow that one was the easiest to ask.
“Briareus Boulevard. It is called after one of the Pendleton rulers from many ages ago. He didn’t end up nicely, though. The man went insane because of the unlimited power.” Favian examined Ruby carefully. “But enough with the history lessons, Rubeus. You must be bewildered right now.”  
“Yes. But I’m even more excited,” Ruby added. “Everyone here seem so polite and helpful and treat me nice.”
“Don’t people treat you nice back home?”
“They don’t treat me at all…” Ruby said in a small voice.
“And what about your family?”
“They don’t really care either. I bet they won’t even notice that I’m not there.”
Favian raised his ginger eyebrows.
“You did tell them that you’re leaving, didn’t you, Rubeus?”
Ruby felt ashamed under the old man’s reproachful and slightly surprised stare.
“Not really…”
Favian sighed.
“Rubeus, I understand, you must be feeling lonely, but family is very important. Even if you think, that your parents don’t care about you enough, they are still your parents. And it is only natural for them to love you. However, lucky for you, Rubeus, our island has a little trick that will ease your parents' hearts.”
“A trick?”
“Oh yes, another lovely feature of Pendleton. You see, time is going here at quite a different pace. A full glorious fortnight here equals merely a day in the Outer World.”
“I don't think I understand you completely,” Ruby said, but in fact he didn't understand it at all. 
“Oh, don't try to understand magic, my dear boy.” Favian laughed and wanted to say something, but Ruby interrupted him.
“Well, that means that people here are aging so much faster!”
“Good thinking, but not quite correct. People here age at the same pace, but their lives can hold so much more than ordinary lives.”
“It makes my brain hurt,” Ruby confessed. He waited for more explanation, but Favian didn't give him any. He remained silent for a moment and then spoke about Ruby's parents, as if they hadn't even changed the topic.
“You must tell your mother and father that you are safe and well.”
Ruby realised that the man was probably right, but somehow what he said was: “I don’t have a father.”
“Your mother, then. This is not an offer, this is a request,” Favian's usually soft voice was now unexpectedly strict. “Can you promise me that you will write your mother a letter?”
Ruby halted for a second, but then said, “Yes.”
“Good. Don’t worry; you won’t be left all alone here. This place is truly magical for those who are not afraid to accept it.”
Ruby nodded and smiled. He liked Favian, even though he was spoke with riddles and never explained anything. 
They were going up the Briareus Boulevard. The morning coolness had disappeared, it became much warmer and Favian was panting slightly. A woman has passed them by with surprisingly soft gait. It took Ruby several moments to realise that she was floating. While thinking of all the curiosities of this place, Ruby couldn’t help remembering the family of Shedlynns and the Archirudder. He was wondering if he would see them again, especially the beautiful colourful bird.  
“Sofus Favian,” Ruby addressed the ginger man politely. “I’ve seen a bird before we got to the registration. Dw-- sofus Dwire said, it was called an Archirudder.”
“Ah, yes. Heavenly creatures. Have you seen it fly?”
“Yes!” Ruby exclaimed. “It was brilliant!”
Favian chuckled.
“Well, one may say so.”
Ruby blushed a little, but decided to carry on with his questions. 
“I would really like to see it again,” he exclaimed.
“I don’t doubt it, my dear! They have this particular feature – they are unforgettable creatures. Literally. They feel people very acutely – if what you felt was a pure admiration, then it might want to show itself once again.”
Ruby nodded.
“And… What is a gwelling? This man… Alem, sofus Alem, he said, that I could stay in a gwelling.”
“It is a place for those who wander,” Favian said, looking at the sky. “It will be your home, while you are in Pendleton. Your friend Emmaline will probably help you find it, she lives nearby.”
Emmaline! Ruby thought of the girl in the purple skirt. It seemed as if he hadn’t seen her for many years. 
“Okay, and…” Ruby had some doubts about asking this question, probably the most vital of all. “Um, when we first met, you told me that dragons may exist somewhere. And then you told me about this place with flying stuff and all these creatures --”
“And you can’t wait to know, where all the dragons are, am I right?”
The thing was that Favian was right. But it was still so difficult to admit.
“There are dragons in this land, Rubeus.” 
Ruby felt his heart pounding fast and loud as a drum roll. He couldn’t believe his happiness! 
“There are lots of them and there are even specially trained people - tamers - who take care of these wayward creatures.” Favian stopped to face Ruby. “But they are not in Airend.”
That’s it. No dragons in Airend. Ruby knew there was something bad coming; this place was too perfect.
“Don't look so sad, my dear Rubeus! Most of the dragons are the habitants of Earthend. There are some stories about travelers who trade baby-dragons for gold and carry them in their little baskets. I would advise you not to believe any of these stories, though.” Favian sounded serious.
“Then, can I go to Earthend now?” Ruby asked hopefully. At this question Favian grinned, which made Ruby feel uncomfortable.
“Not now, my boy. Later – yes, but you should get used to this place and prove that you are worthy.”
“Nothing is clear with him,” Ruby thought, though said nothing. For a moment he felt disappointment slowly taking him over, but the salty wind blew and drove it out.


About an hour later they found themselves on the top of the Briareus Cliff. Favian took a glance at the boy.
“I see you aren't even tired,” he said, trying to catch his breath. “Being young is a privilege, you shouldn't take it for granted. Look around Rubeus!”
The view was breathtaking. The sea and Airend were lying beneath them in all their magnificent glory. Down below the Committee House was towering over the town. The sky was of clear blue and the ground was full of fallen leaves. They could hear the waves splashing gently. The man and the boy sat in silence on a bench facing the panorama for a long time, enjoying the serenity. Ruby couldn't help remembering them sitting on a bench together not so long ago. Just a couple of days ago Favian, this man in colourful clothes and with wild hair, told him about an impossible magical place, and here Ruby was – sitting on the top of the cliff, looking at this impossible place. The boy was wondering if he was “worthy” enough to go to Earthend and see the dragons. 
The flow of his thoughts was interrupted by a sudden squeaking noise. Ruby tried to find the source of it, but he saw only trees that, in his opinion, were unlikely to squeak. The sound repeated again, louder this time.
“It seems that we've got post!” Favian smiled. 
“What? Where?” Ruby saw no postman around. 
Favian stood up and pointed upwards. The same black round birds were twittering in the air. One of them was bigger than the others and closer to Ruby. That's where the squeaking noise was coming from.
“Rubeus Sleeper,” the mechanical voice said. “The boy from the Outside, located with sofus Favian. No urgent status.”
“Is this the post?” Ruby stared at the bird.
“Indeed. These are not real birds, as you might have guessed.”
“Yeah, I saw them at the port, they were speaking there too,” Ruby said. It was great to know at least something and not ask questions for once. “They are like a radio, right?”
“Yes, they are also the messengers of Pendleton. You should catch the one making this noise and tap it on its beak. Be careful, though, they are easily offended. I'd advise you not to catch it by the wings.” Favian rolled up his sleeve and pointed at the bite from the peak on his forearm. “Especially the left one.”
The message wasn't inspiring, but Ruby decided to go for it. He jumped and stretched his arm to catch the big black bird, but ended up hitting it with his fist. The bird squeaked some more. Ruby jumped once again and this time he caught it by the feet.
“Great! You can tap it's beak for the messenger to recite the letter or you can tickle it and then the letter will get printed,” Favian said. “An excellent technology, indeed! Yet, it may not work properly if the bird is not in the mood.”
Ruby stared at the bird for a moment, then at Favian to make sure he wasn't joking. Then at the bird again. It felt cold and smooth in his hand, like a big black ping-pong ball. Even the feathers were as if made out of metal. The squeaking noise had stopped. The voice said once again: “Rubeus Sleeper. The boy from the Outside, located with sofus Favian. No urgent status.” Ruby fearlessly tapped it's beak and it opened with a soft click. The voice came from it, however this time it wasn't the same metal one. Neither was it the male voice that Ruby had heard at the port. The voice coming from the bird was definitely Emmaline's. 
“Hello there, Rubeus! I hope you're having a great time. I really want to see you today, I can help you find your gwelling and the shops where you can buy whatever you need. I guess the port would be the best place for us to meet. Write me back and send your answer with the Birdie. Emmaline. 
P.S.: Aren't these Birdies simply amazing?
P.P.S.: Dear Sofus Favian, I do hope you won't be bothered by assisting Rubeus to our meeting place. Thank you.”
The message ended and the bird closed it's beak. It started jumping on Ruby's palm, as if waiting to bring the response. Ruby laughed.
“Are they really called Birdies?”
“Not officially,” Favian chuckled. “Well, we shouldn't keep Emmaline waiting, she is the most polite and smart girl I know. You can write the letter and feed it to the messenger, or simply record your voice.”
As he had no paper or pen with him (or anything at all, for that matter) Ruby, still laughing at the jumping bird, decided to record his letter to Emmaline. What seemed like a daily routine to the ordinary Pendleton residents, seemed more like a game to him. When he finished, Favian took the bird (that was now opening and closing its beak, probably willing to recite the letter as soon as it could) and let it fly by throwing it rather rudely. 
“I've always had issues with them,” the old man confessed.


After having a snack (Favian said that he carried sandwiches and a thermos bottle with him all the time, but Ruby only chuckled — he didn't believe him), they moved on. On their way to the port the one asking the questions was, strangely, Favian. He wanted to know about Ruby's family, so the boy talked about his great dad, who died six years ago; about his busy mom, who was never there for him; about his sassy brother, who was picking at him; about his silent sister, who couldn't care less. Favian was listening attentively and kept asking the boy questions whenever he stopped. Talking about himself was tiresome for Ruby, since the Sleepers weren't what one may call a happy family. Probably Favian had noticed the change in the boy's mood or may be he had simply ran out of questions, but he decided to stop his questioning. They walked in silence for a couple of minutes until they reached the now familiar to Ruby port with the hovering sign. Favian wished Ruby luck and shook his hand heartily.
“Have a nice and long sleep tonight, you've had an extremely overwhelming day. Goodbye, Rubeus Sleeper!” he nodded to Ruby and walked along the same road Ruby and Dwire had taken several hours ago. 
The place was much more quiet now. Everything seemed more serene and placid after his talk with the ginger man. Ruby didn't feel as if he were a fly that got stuck in the huge spider's web anymore. Spider's web... The spider! Suddenly he remembered. 
“Sofus Favian! Wait! I've completely forgotten!”
The man turned around wearing a wide smile on his face.
“I still have your brooch! You left it on than bench, remember?”
“Of course,” the man stretched out his hand and took the tiny spider. “I'm glad you remembered, Rubeus,” he put the brooch in his pocket, nodded and left. 
Ruby watched him go and doubts started to creep in his soul. “I should have at least said thank you... I wouldn't even be here if it wasn't for him.” His heart was full of gratitude while his head was overdosed with information. His imagination started to create images of him saying to Favian phrases like “It's my best birthday present” and “I express my gratitude to you” or “You can't even imagine how much it means to me”. In reality, however, he couldn't say it. Full of doubts, Ruby was left at the port, watching the ships sail away.

***

The day promised to be hot. In the Committee House people started to crawl slowly and lazily to their offices — nobody wanted to work on a day such as this. Outside the birds were twittering and somewhere far away an Archirudder's cry could be heard. 
Yet, it was quiet in the highest room of the white building. It was the same circular room in which Ruby Sleeper faced the seven men in blue robes several hours ago. Now, however, the room was darker and there were only three men inside, all in their usual clothes.
“Ah, the weather is perfect today!” A round man with a funny moustache said gaily. “I wonder why we needed to come here on such a day.”
“We must do whatever we are asked to and without any delay, Conroy, you know that,” a man with a black beard sounded irritated.
“I know, Shann, but that doesn't mean I enjoy it,” smiling, the round man, Conroy, turned to a gloomy-looking Shann. “Do you?”
“I guess, this is urgent,” Shann said, ignoring the question, “otherwise sofus Alem wouldn't have sent for us so unexpectedly.”
“Urgent or not, I do hope we will finish the business before lunch!” Conroy exclaimed, rubbing his stomach. He smiled at Shann, who ignored him once again. The round man tried to cheer the third man in the room, who was standing near the window the whole time. “Vivek? What do you think, what is this all about?”
Vivek turned around, exposing his scarred face. He didn't smile back. “It seems to me, everything will change quite soon,” he said in a hoarse and low voice. “I hear an Archirudder's cry.”
“Oh,” Conroy looked worried now, “This is definitely an omen of changes. But changes can be good, can't they?” Conroy made another attempt to cheer up the two frowning men. Shann ignored him once again, and Vivek only said “Probably” and faced the round window. At that moment the heavy doors flew open and Alem came in.
His movements were fleet and fast, that was uncommon for such an old man. He, apart from the other members of the Committee, was wearing the blue robes. But he wasn't the only one to enter – another man followed Alem, estranged to all the magi. He looked very ill: his eyes were red and his face pale. Dressed in all black, the man moved slowly to the centre of the room and fell on the sofa. Alem occupied the chair in the centre. 
“The others shall join us soon.”
As he said it, two doors appeared out of nowhere on the opposite sides of the circular room. Navon came out one of the doors, greeted the men and walked slowly towards his chair, with the walking stick in his hand. 
A couple of seconds after Navon came in, Favian entered through the second door. The seven men sat in silence for a while, six of them in their chairs and one on the sofa. The man in black closed his eyes and sighed heavily which made others look at him. 
“Water.” 
The word that Conroy uttered broke the silence and then the weirdest thing happened. Conroy's eyes were closed and a moment after he said the word, a glass of water appeared on the table. For a moment it was hovering in the air, as if an invisible hand was holding it; and then it landed gently on the table. 
Now the ill man's eyes were wide open – he was staring at the glass and at the men, sitting calmly in their chairs. 
“Drink it,” Favian said in a soft voice. “You'll feel better.”
At that moment another door appeared and Dwire came into the room hastily. 
“Sit down, please, and we shall start,” was Alem's demanding voice. “Do mind, that confidentiality of today's meeting is paramount.” Several heads nodded. “This man, sitting in front of us, is a seer. He had a vision not so long ago, that is of crucial importance to us. Please, seer, speak of your prophecy.”
The man (who had emptied the glass of water in three swift gulps) looked at the magi. It was some time before he finally spoke. He was whispering, but his whisper was strong and powerful. 
“A newcomer will arrive to the Lost Isle of Pendleton very soon. And he will bring Despair and Grief. And only the twins will restore Peace.”
There was a long pause. The men in the chairs exchanged worried glances.
“Seer, we need to know --” Alem began quietly.
“A newcomer will arrive!” The seer cried loudly. “He will bring Grief! The twins will restore Peace!”
“Yes, we just --”
“A NEWCOMER!” The man was screaming now, making everyone in the room jump. “GRIEF! THE TWINS!”
The man continued to scream until suddenly two wide-shouldered men appeared at the main door and, having received a sign from Alem, took the yelling man by the arms and dragged him away.
“Well,” Alem said after a deep sigh. “You have heard it.”
A pause followed his words. 
“This seer was keeping his vision to himself for quite a long time; he came to me this morning, saying that he couldn't bear this information, it literally sucked the life out of him. Yet, we can't hesitate any longer,” Alem said in commanding voice. “We must keep an eye on every recent newcomer. We shall do it fast and quiet.”
“But, sofus Alem,” Navon began uncertainly, “what about these twins?”
“Later, later! First things first.” The old man was stroking his white beard. “As the seer claimed, the vision came to him on the night of the previous full moon.”
“A month ago,” Favian stated.
“Indeed.”
“That gives us quite few newcomers,” Shann, the gloomy-looking man said.
“Indeed. There was a woman with the three toddlers – what was her name, Milena? No, Minerva?”
“Miriam,” said Dwire. “Her name is Miriam. It seems to me this woman is too busy with her offspring for bringing destruction to the whole civilization.”
Conroy giggled in a way that plump big men are not supposed to giggle and Vivek gave him a reproachful look. 
“There was also a man called Evarb with his sister Enola, but they come from a good family and can be trusted.” Conroy said, looking offended and trying to make up for his childish behaviour.
“Indeed. Was there anyone else? What about the boy, Sluppar? No, Slabber?”
“Sleeper,” Favian corrected him. “Rubeus Sleeper, but he is just a little innocent boy --”
“And a curious one, for that matter,” Dwire added.
“That's true, we shouldn't forget the young mind's natural inquisitiveness.” Alem nodded. “So that gives us three newcomers in the whole --”
The man was interrupted by Vivek, who was looking at Navon curiously. “But I think we are forgetting someone. Astrophilius Faramond.”
Alem looked at Vivek in surprise. “Astrophilius is not a newcomer. We all know him very well.”
“Indeed, sofus Alem; yet, the seer didn't say that a newcomer was from the Outer World – he may be from another settlement.” Nobody said anything and Vivek continued. “Astrophilius is from Earthend and --”
“Sofus Vivek, thank you, but I believe we can trust Astrophilius Faramond completely.” Vivek's scarred face frowned. “Now, we shall keep an eye on the newcomers. Make sure that none of them bear a grudge against us in their hearts and if they do, try to deal with it.” Alem concluded.
Favian looked at him closely. “Sofus Alem, for the sake of truth – people can make mistakes without intention.”
“Oh, sofus Favian, people can burn their breakfast by mistake without intention, but not bring Despair and Grief to the whole island.” Alem shook his head and stood up. “You may be free.” 
The  rest of the magi stood up as well and went out – some walked out the main door, others used the doors, that appeared once again. 
And there was one, remaining in his chair. He set his bow tie straight and looked out of the window, where an archirudder's cry could still be heard. “A newcomer will arrive to the Lost Isle of Pendleton very soon. And he will bring Despair and Grief. And only the twins will restore Peace.” This was the phrase that Favian heard in an archirudder's cry.






Ch 6
The Legend Circle 

“Hey there!” Emmaline's loud and brisk voice had meddled in Ruby's thoughts. She was as bright and fast as in the morning. “Tell me everything! Did you like sofus Alem? He is a tough one, I wonder if he had ever smiled... And I bet you were surprised by the elevator – it moves by sheer mind abilities! Can you believe it? And have you seen the corridor of talking walls or the running reception desk?”
“The corridor of what?” 
“Oh, I love the Committee House so much! So how was it?” Ruby was drowned by Emmaline's flow of words. He had felt too much at once; the only thing he had in mind was “Amazing”. That's what he told Emmaline.
“Amazing!” Emmaline was looking at him expectantly, waiting for more. But Ruby had some difficulties in expressing himself, so he kept smiling at Emmaline, who wasn't very satisfied with his answer. She had barely started pouring the words once again, when Ruby remembered.
“I saw shedlynns and an archirudder!” he boasted.
The girl looked both surprised and envious. “Oh really! I've never seen an archirudder! You are so lucky, Rubeus!”
However beautiful and sunny the day promised to be, the rain was about to make its appearance. Grey clouds were coming closer together and the mild breeze now felt more like an icy wind. Together Ruby and Emmaline went towards Ruby's future gwelling.
As Emmaline kept asking Ruby questions, he told her everything that had happened to him since they parted on the port. He was talking and talking and it wasn't until some time when he finally noticed that they were walking near the tramway track and something was moving from the distance along it. When the thing came closer, Ruby realised that it was a vehicle. It looked like an open tram with people sitting inside and on the roof. Ruby gazed at it in admiration. The tram came closer with the rattling noise that mixed with the mild roar of thunder. It started to rain.
“Oh look!” Emmaline pointed at the tram happily. “That's touk-touk, my favourite way of transportation. Though, if you think about it, it's definitely the slowest way to get anywhere.”
“Why do you like it, then?”
“Because it is so much fun!” The girl answered simply. She made a gesture, inviting him on board. “Shall we?” 
“We shall,” Ruby smiled and together they hopped on inside. It was filled with the pleasant odour of flowers and old books.
“They lied about the weather once again!” The old lady near them groaned. “I don't have my umbrella with me and I hate rains!”
“You know as they say,” said a woman from the other part of the touk-touk, “when it rains, it pours.”
“Literally.”
While the two ladies were engaged in this little chat, Ruby was staring out of the window, ready to see everything – every building, every person, every creature. The touk-touk was slow, indeed, which was good in Ruby's point of view. Because of the rain that now turned into a heavy shower, the streets were practically empty. Ruby caught sight of a couple walking slowly hand in hand under the bright umbrella. At some distance he saw several little creatures, jumping in the puddle happily. Emmaline called them fluffs. They were round and fluffy; probably they had eyes or a beak, but Ruby could not see them – the creatures were too far away.
“Oh look!” she pointed at a grand vast building on the opposite side of the road. “That's the Guiding Academy, I'm starting my third term here next month.”
“Third term? And have you already finished school?”
“Of course I have, we graduate from school at 16.”
Ruby looked at Emmaline closely. She looked no more than sixteen to him and here she was, starting her third term.
“I'm nineteen. I bet you thought I was sixteen or something,” she smiled. 
“No, no,” Ruby shook his head, feeling surprised. “So what do you study there?” He asked, eager to change the subject.
“History, mostly. History of Pendleton and the Outer World, (Ruby guessed that the Outer World was where he came from) the Past and the Future. 
“The Future?” Ruby was startled. “How can you learn about the future?”
“Not exactly learn... We don't know the future, nobody does, Rubeus,” she said with the sudden earnestness which seemed completely out of her character. “But throughout the long Pendleton history there have been many seers who could see things. Not the Future itself, but the possibility of something happening.”
“Wow!” Ruby was impressed. Before that he had always seen Emmaline as a talkative little girl, though now she seemed to be much more. “And what will you do after you finish studying?”
“Well, I'm not sure... My father wants me to be a guide or some Committee worker, but that's not really for me. I have something I want to do, but... I guess it's not possible. Here is our stop!” She hastily walked out of a touk-touk and immediately started chattering about gwellings, as though she was happy to change the subject. 
It was still raining, though not as heavily as before. Emmaline showed Ruby the shop, where he could buy everything he needed and a gwelling entrance. They parted, deciding to meet again tomorrow and Ruby entered the gray building. There were four unsteady-looking steps before the old-fashioned doors that appeared to be not very clean. Something inside Ruby wasn't eager to go inside this place, let alone spend the night here, it didn't feel homely and welcoming at all. 
As Ruby entered the building, a disgusting sour smell filled his nostrils. He was standing in a small room, with only a reception desk, a cupboard and an old grandfather's clock inside. A dusty staircase was leading the way to the second floor. 
“Hello,” Ruby addressed a witch-like woman sitting behind the desk, flipping the pages of a magazine with her bony long fingers and obviously paying no attention neither to the smell nor to the dirtiness of the place. Slowly, she lowered the magazine and looked at the boy. 
“Um... Can I have a room? Or a key to my room? I'm not sure.”
“You're not sure?” the woman echoed him in a lazy voice.
“Well, I guess I have a room here, though I do not know which one.”
“Don't know which one?” She repeated after him once again.
“Yes, that's what I've said,” Ruby was feeling nervous now. “I guess, I need the key, you have lots of keys here, don't you?”
“You guess you need a key?” This started to irritate Ruby, it seemed as if the woman was mocking at him. Just as he decided to turn around and leave, she suddenly asked:
“What's your name?”
“Rubeus Sleeper.”
The woman looked through the keys on her desk, took one and lazily held it to Ruby. His name was written on a tag.
“Thank you.” Ruby sighed with relief when he was coming up the dusty staircase, away from the sour smell and a horrid woman with a magazine.
On the second floor it was as dirty as downstairs. The boy was standing in the beginning of a long hall, that seemed to never end, with paintings and doors along it. The light was dim, but after taking a good look into every number on the doors, Ruby managed to find his room. “I'm glad it's in the beginning of the corridor,” he thought, opening the door with his key and looking at the other end of the corridor that sunk into darkness.
In his tiny room Ruby fell on the bed at once, feeling exhausted. Though it wasn't as soft as his own, it felt perfect. His legs were aching after the long and tiresome day. For a second he was lying on the bed, thinking that, probably, he should have bowed to Favian, as everybody did; and then Ruby was fast asleep.


The clock downstairs struck nine. It was already dusk outside and the small gwelling room was filled with darkness. Ruby woke up abruptly, and felt the grumbling of his stomach. After putting all of the things he bought in the cupboard, Ruby decided to go downstairs and grab some food. He didn't even had an opportunity to leave the room, when a big tray full of appetizing food rolled in. 
“Wow!” Ruby exclaimed, staring at the dishes and breathing in the delicious smell. “It may be dusty here, but they do know how to cook!”
After helping himself to some pumpkin soup, a chicken with rice, many salads, two pieces of brownie with an ice-cream and a gigantic cup of ginger tea, Ruby at last felt full of food and joy. He moved the empty tray aside, took a pad and a pencil and sat comfortably on the bed. He had seen so many things today, all of them inspired him like nothing before. He lifted the pencil, but nothing happened. There were so many images in his mind, it was impossible to choose only one, to concentrate. Ruby thought it might be better to take a walk and find out what this place was hiding. It was bound to hide something incredibly amazing because – well, because it's Pendleton.
The hall got very cold after the sunset and the light became even more dim, or at least it felt so after the warm and bright room. Walking downstairs didn't seem encouraging at all, so Ruby chose the long and dark corridor instead. He has been walking along it for several minutes, until he finally reached a dead end. He sighed and turned to go back, when a subdued groan came from upstairs. There was a staircase which Ruby somehow hadn't noticed before; he could not see where it led, as it was pitch-black upstairs. Slightly scared, but very intrigued, Ruby took a deep breath and went up. 
He was ruled by some unknown and unexplainable force, that couldn't be resisted. Ruby was never brave; now, however, he was too curious to be scared. He realised, that he was in the attic, a huge one, dark and dusty. He sneezed loudly, and something in the farthest corner was disturbed by the sudden noise. It moved. It seemed like a big pile of clothes to Ruby. A big hairy pile. Feeling exited, Ruby took several steps towards it.
“Hello?” He said quietly. “What – who are you?”
Everything was silent. Ruby took some more steps closer and could now see a big hairy body, two hands and a head. A head moved, revealing a face with two eyes, black as coal. 
“I'm Ruby,” he said in a quivering voice. Now the fear took him over, but he dared not move. “And you?”
A heavy groan repeated and the voice came from this hairy creature. 
“Me hamlin.”
“Hamlin? Is it your name?”
“Me no name. Me hamlin. Me keep house in order.”
“Nice to meet you, hamlin,” Ruby said, sitting on the floor, opposite the creature. His eyes started to get used to the darkness and he could see him properly now. He was big, very big, or seemed so because of his fur – brown and long. His face was almost humane, with the exception of a long nose and enormous hairy ears. He had hands just like a human, though much bigger and with the dirty nails. The long hair of his eyebrows and beard mixed with the fur, making it impossible to say where one ended and another began. 
“Why are you here? Alone?”
“Me keep house in order.” Hamlin repeated. He began to sound irritated and annoyed with the presence of the boy. Ruby checked his pockets, hoping to find something that he could offer to this curious creature. He found nothing and after double-checking, an idea came over him.
“I'll be back!” Ruby said loudly, hurrying to his room. 
When he came back with the pad and a pencil in one hand and some chocolate biscuits in the other, he saw hamlin sitting on the exact same spot in the exact same position. 
“Do you want it?” Ruby offered him a biscuit. Hamlin's grumpy face stared at it in silence. 
“Take it. It's tasty.”
After several long second the creature stretched out his hairy hand and took it. 
“Me never eat this.”
“Well, try now!”
He did. The loud crunch echoed in a silent attic. In one swift moment the biscuit was no longer there and hamlin's hand was stretched out once again, asking for more. Ruby shared the biscuits with the creature and took out his pad.
“Can I draw you?”
“Draw?” Hamlin repeated questioningly. 
“I... Draw... You...” Ruby tried to explain it with the movements. The hairy creature still looked puzzled. Ruby started drawing the hamlin, who now wasn't grumpy at all – he was eating biscuits one by one, enjoying himself greatly.  


The next morning was chilly. Ruby opened his eyes lazily, it was still dawn. He was wide awake, but stayed in bed for another several warm hours –  it was much cozier under the blanket. He remembered the previous day, long and exiting: the arrival, the registration, Emmaline, Favian, the hamlin... On the boy's table several drawing were scattered about, all of them the pictures of Pendleton. After the hamlin, Ruby had a hit of inspiration and he couldn't put off his pencil for many hours. He even wrote a letter to his family, telling them, that he was safe and sound and, most of all, happy. He asked them not to go and look for him, because he would soon return. He wasn't sure if it was the truth, but thought better to add this sentence in the letter to his mother. Ethan and Grace will probably be thrilled with the news that their brother was away, he thought; but it didn't make him even a little sad. 
They met with Emmaline in the afternoon, when it became a little warmer and the sun finally showed up. Emmaline was intended to show Ruby all her favourite spots of Airend, which, as she claimed, “will take forever, because Airend is full of them”. She took him to the square with a big fountain, to the field, full of pink and purple berries, that tasted like blackberry – whistleberries, she called them and, indeed, they whistled, when Ruby picked them. They went to the wild beach, full of rocks and to the sand beach, with only a few people still swimming at that weather. 
Emmaline was talking a lot; Ruby didn't mind though, there were so many things he wanted to find out about Pendleton. When he asked her about the fact that time is going faster here then in Ruby's world, Emmaline didn't explain anything, just like Favian. The only thing she said was: “It's great, because we can do so many things, learn so much! I've been in the Outer World for a day once, and when I was back it appeared I've missed two whole weeks.”
But most of all Ruby wanted to hear about Airend and other settlements. Apparently, the four of them were so much more than just settlements – the place, where a person was born influenced him much more than in the ordinary world. 
“All my ancestors are from Airend,” Emmaline was saying. “People here are usually very intelligent and wise and everyone who is born here usually develop these qualities. Do you remember the phrase from the Welcome Board? 'Here dwell those whose heart is open and mind is wise',” Emmaline said proudly, before Ruby had a chance to answer. “Every settlement has it's own qualities.”
“Do you know which qualities?” Something that Favian said about Ruby “proving that he is worthy enough” to go to Earthend, made him ask this question. 
“Um...” Emmaline tried to remember. “Well, I don't remember the exact words, but I do know that in Firend there are a lot of talented people; Waterend is famous for its healers, so I guess the quality is kindness; and Earthend... Well, there are dragons and some other big creatures, so people should definitely be strong there. Strong enough to tame them.”
“Tame the dragons?”
“Oh yes, otherwise they would have killed us all,” Emmaline said calmly. “Tamer is a profession. Only few people can become a true tamer, a dragon tamer, because dragons are the most difficult to tame.”
“Sounds like the best profession!”
“It does, doesn't it?” Emmaline said dreamily. But then she shook her head slightly. “Unfortunately, I don't know much about it. All I know is that my father thinks, it's not for girls,” she frowned. “By the way! I've just remembered that a tamer from Earthend had recently come to Airend, and he is a good friend of Favian. It will be great to meet him!”
Ruby felt exited. Finally, he will see and hopefully speak with the person, who deals with dragons every day and who may tell him more about them and Earthend. 
The day slowly passed, changing into a cool evening. Emmaline invited Ruby at her house to have some lunch, and when they got there, the boy couldn't believe his eyes. Emmaline's house wasn't just a house — it was a grand villa near the shore with two floors and a stunning view. They must be very rich, Ruby thought. Talkative though Emmaline was, she seemed to have lots of surprises. They even had a maid — a plump woman with the broadest smile Ruby had ever seen. Emmaline called her Fae and they treated each other with great tenderness. The girl admitted that Fae was like a mother to her.
“Another great thing about Pendleton,” she was saying, sitting in an old-fashioned beautifully-carved chair, finishing her tea, “is that people here love to tell stories and legends. There is a place called Legend Circle, that I love immensely and I've been dying to go there with someone apart from my father.” She helped herself to the second piece of a lemon cake. “It takes place once a week after sunset on a Bonfire Square – a place where huge bonfires used to take place in the old days. Today is the day of the Legend Circle, we should definitely go there!”
“So, what do people do there?”
“They make a bonfire – big enough for ten or fifteen people to sit around it – and the storytellers narrate the legends of Pendleton. And there is usually a new topic every month. I love the Legend Circle so much, you'll love it too, I bet!” A smile spread across Emmaline's face and her mind floated somewhere far away. 


That day the luck was on their side. First of all, Dwire told them that this month the Legend Circle was devoted to dragons, which made Ruby jump on the spot and then turn red as a tomato under Dwire's stare. And then it turned out that Favian and the tamer from Earthend will be joining them there. Ruby was looking forward to it and even the fact that Dwire was going to accompany them didn't trouble him much.  
After the sunset they set off. The Bonfire Square was circular, loud and crowded. The soft grass under his feet made Ruby realise that they were on the field, surrounded by woods from one side and buildings from the other. The bonfire was already lit, and the scene reminded Ruby much of a witches' sabbath. On the edge of the field near the buildings the fair stalls were crammed tightly together, and most of the people were gathered around them, chatting lively.
“Good evening, fellows!” A joyful voice called them. Navon was limping towards them, grinning. “Sofus Dwire,” he bowed to him and Dwire answered him with a nod. Then, quite unexpectedly, Navon turned to Emmaline and Ruby and hugged them cordially. “Nice to see you all here. Favian and Faramond are coming in a second. The peelt stall had interested them greatly,” he winked.
“A peelt? What is it? Ruby asked.
“Liquor,” Navon answered simply. “And the greatest one for sure, it's made out of cocoa beans and whistle berries. It's best when it is brewed in the open air, otherwise it may get stinky.”
They went closer to the bonfire, Emmaline chattering to Navon, as if they were friends. Dwire was walking ahead of them. The square was noisy; it was filled with laughter, chatting and jovial voices. It seemed like a holiday. Ruby had never seen anything like this: the only festivity there was in their port town is a New Year countdown, after which the town was falling asleep for the rest of the year.
In a short while Favian came with a man, who, Ruby guessed, was the dragon tamer from Earthend. Favian greeted everyone and introduced the man.
“This is Astrophilius Faramond, my good friend who came to our settlement from Earthend.”
Astrophlius Faramond was a stout young man with dark brown hair. He would have been good-looking if it wasn't for one thing. Half of his face was burnt and another half covered with scars. The man's face was ugly and repelling and Ruby noticed several people staring at him with horror, some even looking back and whispering. But the moment Faramond started speaking, Ruby  took a liking to this man. His voice was mild and soft; he wasn't smiling, but there was tenderness in his eyes that was difficult to explain, but easy to feel. 
“Rubeus Sleeper! It's nice to meet you, I've heard a lot about you.” He took Ruby's hand and shook it with both of his. They were rough and strong — the hands of a tamer, Ruby thought in a rapture. “And you must be Emmaline Routledge,” the man turned to Emmaline. Ruby noticed that she grimaced slightly looking at Faramond, but in a second her usual smile appeared on her face and she shook his hand.  
“We should go, the Circle is starting in a few minutes,” Favian said and led the way.
It was surprising for Ruby that of all that crowd not more than twenty people were gathering around the bonfire. Others were buzzing around the innumerable stalls filled with hand-made clothes and jewelery, fresh fruit and vegetables, liquor of any kind, sweets of any kind, and even animals. 
“What about all this stalls? Is there always a fair during the Legend Circles?” Navon asked. 
“Not always,” Favian answered. He looked just the same as Ruby saw him last time, his wild ginger hair being as wild as they had been during the newcomer registration. He was wearing a deep-blue bow tie today, that matched his coat. “Any other week of the year the Legend Circle is a much smaller event, but because of the September equinox this and the following week are promising to be crowded.”
“Equinox? I'm pretty sure, I've heard it somewhere. I see the great spot,” Emmaline said, pointing at the ground near the fire.
“Equinox is happening twice a year,” Astrophilius Faramond explained, “at the day of equinox the day and the night are becoming equal. In the sense of length of course,” he said, but then added with the smile, “though not the length alone. People believe that the forces of day and night are becoming equal as well and because of that equinox is believed to be a very powerful day for both good and bad magic. Hence the agitation and the crowd. Some people are buying strong potions, amulets, familiars; others are just enjoying the festivities.” 
They all sat down in front of the fire. It was warm there and everyone were eager to listen to the legends of the Pendleton. Ruby sat with Emmaline and Faramond by his side. He felt calm with this man near him, however repulsive his appearance were and he was sure he had heard the name “Astrophilius” somewhere before, but couldn't remember where. A girl near Faramond took a look at him, stood up and hurried to find another spot.  The man only laughed, though. 
“That probably sounds horrible, but I'm used to it,” he said in a low voice to Ruby.
At that moment a blond man stood up and everybody around the bonfire went silent.
“Greetings, ladies and gentlemen! Welcome to the Legend Circle of the Lost Isle of Pendleton. Today I will be your storyteller,” the man announced, bowing slightly. “Let me present you a story about dark times and about the bravery of one simple man.”

“It happened a long long time ago, when the dragons' existence was menaced by the Great Dragon Hunt. At that time people craved to be the biggest and most powerful creatures to walk the Earth. They fought many bloody battles and destroyed many beautiful species until they realised that dragons had to perish if people truly wanted to be the most powerful creatures. People of those days were incapable of taming the dragons, since it requires inner strength and unselfishness. One of the rulers, who called himself Guerrant, claimed that the only thing there was to do is to elliminate the living dragons and destroy their eggs. The battles were ruthless. People were succeeding, and soon no more than six dragons were left. 
Everyone participated in these battles, except one man. He was a lonely blacksmith, who lived in his shack in a long-forgotten hamlet. He was known under the name of Brokk the blacksmith. He worked hard, lived quietly and bore an unrequited love in his heart. This love was for the beautiful girl, duke's daughter called Acantha. Yet, many men were kneeling before her, claiming their love and impressing her with their skills; Brokk had nothing to boast with, so his love remained quiet and hidden until one sunny day.
That day Brokk the blacksmith was wandering through the woods in the search of herbs. Bending over a shrub, he heard footsteps and raised his head only to see Acantha standing before him. She was as exquisite as ever in her red dress. Not even a second passed when a man fell on his knees and confessed his love to her before he knew it. Acantha didn't get angry or surprised: she simply laughed.
“You, in rugs, love me? You, with your dirty hands and these hungry eyes?” Her laugh was icy cold and it pierced the poor man's heart. “You're nothing but the tiny helpless creature! Why did you even address me, I feel humiliated.”
“I didn't mean for this to happen, your beauty made me do it.”
Acantha's eyes suddenly got mean and she smiled at Brokk slyly.
“Prove it,” she pointed at the tiny fluff that had a misfortune of creeping past them. “Are you man enough to kill this creature?” Brokk was staring at her, his eyes full of terror. “You will at least prove that you are less miserable than this bug.”
The man's heart filled with disgust to the woman he worshiped. He did nothing. 
“I knew you were weak the moment I saw you, blacksmith.”
Disenchanted and hopeless, Brokk returned home. But when he took off his coat, he saw the fluff clinging to his clothes. It was the size of a man's palm, tiny and fluffy, looking at the man with its two black eyes. Overwhelmed with despair, still hearing Acantha's voice in his head, Brokk fell on the chair and patted the creature. Suddenly, there was a loud noise and, to Brokk's utter astonishment, the fluff jumped out of the man's palm on the floor and started to grow bigger. His hair was becoming shorter until they finally disappeared, showing not a skin, but scales. The creature was the size of Brokk now and it continued to grow even when a large tail and a big head appeared out of nowhere. 
It stopped just in time, as a second later the roof of Brokk's cabin would have been broken. The man looked up. A massive dragon was looking back at him. Not yet fully grown, but big enough to occupy most of the small cabin. Horror took over Brokk, he couldn't move. 
“What are you?” 
“I am the Golden Dragon, the last of my kind,” the dragon spoke and his voice was strong and mighty. “You have done a noble thing, human. What do they call you?”
“Brokk the blacksmith,” said Brokk, who was still rooted to the spot.
“Thank you, Brokk the blacksmith. You have a big heart. Sit down and I will tell you my story.”
“It is the Dragon Hunt that made me conceal myself. We are persecuted and I am the only Golden Dragon left. I was forced to shapeshift into a tiny wood creature with an eye to protecting myself. This, however, was a torment; I was mocked at and my life had been miserable for many years. You are the first one to pity me, human Brokk.”  
And so, the friendship of a man and a dragon began. The Dragon granted the man with a  big  amount of gold as a gratefulness for his kindness. They shared their knowledge with each other and Brokk promised to help the dragon escape death. He used the gold to build a shelter for those dragons that were still alive. He chose the spot in the depths of the forest (since everyone knew,  the dragons do not dwell in the woods – they prefer stones and rocks) and with the help of the Golden Dragon built a cave. Six mighty dragons lived in that cave, and in time there were more of them; and then even more. Eventually, the Dragon Hunt was over and the proudest and biggest of the creatures were free again.
Many years had passed and the friendship of a man and a dragon only blossomed. But as the Golden Dragon was growing bigger and stronger, Brokk the blacksmith was getting older and weaker. Soon he got too old to walk and work and there were more wrinkles on his face than hair on his head. The Great Dragon wanted to help the man with his power of shapeshifting, but he alone could not do it. And that was when six mighty dragons rejoined their forces in pursuit of helping a man who once had helped them. Together they turned Brokk the blacksmith, old and sick man into Brokk the Dragon, a mighty one with the iron tail. Ever since that day Brokk lives in his many ancestors – iron-tailed dragons we now call the Brokks.
And this is the story of how a simple man saved the dragons from dying out.”


The fire was cracking. Ruby rubbed his eyes as if he had just woken up. He saw Brokk in front of him, calling and encouraging him to join the blacksmith in saving the dragons from the Dragon Hunt. The Golden Dragon was talking to him as well.
“Rubeus the Brave”, the dragon said, “Here is the dragon egg for you. Preserve it and take care of the dragon inside.” Ruby stretched out his hand to take the egg from the dragon's golden palm.
“Rubeus?”
He blinked. To his surprise, he didn't see Brokk or the Golden Dragon or the egg in front of him – he saw the bonfire, Emmaline and Faramond by his side. Several people nearby were looking at him curiously, as he was standing up with his arm outstretched.
“What are you reaching for?” Emmaline asked. “Are you all right?”
“I'm fine,” he sat down, turning scarlet.
The story was over, but the Legend Circle wasn't – people started asking questions, discussing and talking; one girl asked the storyteller what happened to Acantha probably eight or nine times. It got very noisy, but Ruby's mind was far away from the bonfire. He had never felt so exited in his life, he wanted to stand up, take his belongings and go travelling and find the dragons. He was never this certain in anything before: Rubeus Sleeper was supposed to arrive to Pendleton to find his dragon. 
 







Ch 7
The Tamers' Camp

The twins were staring at the letter. 
“What a weird stamp... I've never seen such stamps.” 
“Forget the stamp, how come it's on our living room table?” 
“Read it once again.”
Ethan and Grace sat in the quiet living room. Grace was twirling the envelope in her hands and Ethan read the letter for the third time. It has been lying on the table for quite some time now. Ethan had walked past it 3 times; Grace did it 7 times, each of them with a magazine in her hands. The letter probably would have remained unopened if it wasn't for the phone, that rang and attracted the twins' attention to the living room table. 
“So I guess Ruby is in his bed now, enjoying his original prank?”
“He's not there, Ive checked twice. Grace, I think his bed wasn't slept in this night,” Ethan sounded worried; Grace, however, put the envelope back on the table and stood up. 
“Don't worry so much, he is probably staying with his friends.”
“Ruby doesn't have friends, and look – the stamp is weird, you said it yourself!” 
“I -- well, I don't know, may be he drew it himself, he and this Robby or Ronnie friend of his,” Grace was heading towards the front door. 
“Ronnie?” Ethan's face darkened. “Didn't you know about this Ronnie?”
“Know what?” She said, opening the door. 
“There was no Ronnie. Ruby imagined him. His teacher told mom, he was always playing alone.”
“Oh,” came from the hall. “I really have to go now, forget the letter, it's just a joke.”
Ethan heard the door slam. He threw the last worrying glance at the letter and put it back on the table. 

*** 

It's been almost a week since the day Ruby arrived to Pendleton on the Midnight Steamer on the day of the full moon. Every day brought new emotions, new meetings, new peculiarities of this place. Ruby knew a lot now and there was still much to learn. He got used to his little gwelling room and it got much cozier after Emmaline got him a lamp shaped as a sylph. It shone with a bright white light. Ruby told Emmaline about the hamlin whom he visited quite often now.
“Hamlins are fine,” she said. “They guard the house and, you know, people feel safer when they pretend not to notice them.”
“Do you have a hamlin in the house?”
Emmaline shook her head. “Hamlins dwell in the very old houses. They live for many years, some say hundred, others – eight hundred... No one knows for sure.”
Emmaline's third semester in the Guiding Academy had started on the 23rd of September, (“Most schools and universities usually start at the end of September”, she told Ruby) and Ruby was thinking of a way to entertain himself in Pendleton alone. 
After getting himself lost several times, Ruby finally started to recognize the streets and remembering the touk-touk numbers. One busy Wednesday morning he was walking towards the Covenant Gardens, a most beautiful place; the ground there was covered with violet flowers all year round and the sense of smell reigned over all other senses, making people smile and sing. The gates of the Gardens were heavy and, while using all his strength to open them, Ruby, to his delight, saw Astrophilius Faramond, carrying a large bag on his shoulder. He finally opened the door and waved to the man. Ruby had only seen him once since the Legend Circle and for a very brief time. He was coveting to speak to him once again.
“Rubeus! I was looking forward to meeting you. I wanted to show you something, that might be interesting for you. By chance I have it now with me.”
He tapped his bag gently and smiled. “Something interesting” from the dragon tamer was as exciting for Ruby as a pile of the New Year presents for any other child. They sat down and Ruby looked at Faramond impatiently. The man, though, wasn't in a hurry to share with Ruby whatever he wanted to share. He was watching people passing by, most of them being couples. He seemed to be deep in thoughts. Ruby had already lost all his hope to bring Faramond back, when the latter turned to the boy and spoke with his mild and quiet voice.
“It seems to me, nowhere in the world such a unique place exists. Do you see all these violet flowers? They are called Lobelia, their scent is truly divine. It makes people feel stronger, gives them hope. Makes them kinder and fills their hearts with love. I enjoy being here – people do not run away from me the moment they see me.”
That was true – Ruby didn't notice it somehow, but Faramond's face didn't seem as repelling as the previous times he had seen him. 
“However, being here for too long is dangerous,” the man said thoughtfully, gazing at the sky. “The Gardens are saturated with the Lobelia essence. It's a huge concentration of love in one place and it is too powerful for people to bear. Being here too often for too long can drive you mad with love. It fills the soul with the fear of loss.”
Ruby wanted to ask Faramond, if something like this had happened to him, but he didn't know if it was acceptable. He stayed silent, waiting for Faramond to speak, throwing glances at his bag from time to time. Then, a muffled sound came from the bag, waking Faramond up from his pondering. 
“Oh, right,” he said. “I wanted to show you something.” He put the bag on his laps and opened it. Ruby couldn't believe his own eyes. Staring at him with its big yellow reptile eyes there sat a tiny dragon. Faramond took it and gave to Ruby – it was the size of a puppy and could easily fit on the boy's palms. For a moment there he thought, that nothing but a simple toy sat on his hand, when the creature moved its head up and emitted a fire from its mouth. It was as real as Ruby or Faramond.
“He likes you,” Faramond laughed. “That's his way of showing it – breathing fire.”
 The boy and the dragon were gazing at each other curiously. At a closer look Ruby could recognize the yellow scales, three tiny horns and spikes all over the tail.
“But where is it from?” The boy was astonished. “There are no dragons in Airend, Favian told me!”
“You are forgetting one little thing,” Faramond grinned, “I'm not from Airend.”
Ruby, still startled, smiled. He patted the dragon, who was obviously used to it. As if eager to show his fondness to the boy, he emitted some more fire from his mouth. So engaged was Ruby with the first dragon he ever saw, he didn't even notice the minutes passing by. Soon, however, the dragon got bored with playing; he waved its bat wings and flew to Faramond's lap. His flying was perfect, he didn't seem a baby at all. As if reading Ruby's mind, Faramond explained:
“There is a special breed in Earthend for little children. They are called Trioceros Dragons. They help children to adjust to these creatures and to the fact that they are not to meddle with. Some people try to keep them at home, but, big or small, dragons will always be dragons. They long for freedom, they are not the creatures to live in a cage or in the house. However, there had been a few cases when dragons allowed humans to treat them as pets. This funny little thing is one of them. I had saved him from a wood carnivore some years ago and he hasn't left me ever since.” Faramond patted the yellow dragon. “Sometimes he flies away for several weeks, but he always returns.”  
“Does he have a name?” Ruby inquired, watching the tiny dragon circling above them as a peculiar yellow bird.
“I call him Dig – he likes digging the ground.”
At that moment Dig decided to demonstrate this curious feature of his. He fled down and began digging the ground vigourously. He resembled much of a puppy now.
“Faramond, what do you do in Airend now? There are no dragons here and you are a dragon tamer.”
“I used to be a tamer.” Faramond corrected Ruby, evading the answer. “I travel now a lot more than tame.”
“Are you a traveller then?”
“I would rather call myself a seeker.”
What Astrophilius Faramond was seeking for, Ruby did not dare ask. Faramond continued.
“You know, Rubeus,” he said, “You can only become a tamer in Earthend. But that doesn't mean there are no options for those who desire to become a tamer.”
“Isn't it?” Ruby jumped on his place from excitement.
“There are special camps in every village of Pendleton. For those who wish to try themselves in a profession of other village, but not sure whether they will succeed or not. People in Pendleton love their villages dearly and are not usually ready to move. My ancestors are all from Earthend, they have all been engaged in Earthend professions, such as tamers or masons. But not all people are ready to follow their parents. Some want to explore. And nowadays there are more and more young people who want to study other professions. Anyway, I'm helping at a tamer's camp sometimes when I can spare time. We can use a passionate dragon-lover just like you there.”
Faramond halted, as if giving Ruby time to think his words over. The boy jumped off the bench enthusiastically, as if ready to go right away.
“Of course!” he shouted happily. “Can we go there now?”
Faramond laughed softly and stood up as well. “I believe, we can.”
The second Faramond and Ruby left the Covenant Gardens behind, Ruby noticed all the scars and burns on Faramond's face. They didn't trouble him one bit, though.
“Thank you,” he said to the man, though the words were too weak to express his gratitude.


The tamer's camp was everything Ruby imagined it to be. Even though it was situated in the depths of the woods, where the sun had some difficulties shining in, the spot was absolutely enchanting. The smell of fresh grass was all over the place and innumerable birds were heard twittering somewhere high in the sky. 
“As there are no big creatures here to tame, people are being tested in other ways,” Faramond explained, as they moved in the deepest corner of the forest. “You see, taming doesn't require strength alone. Massive creatures and dragons in particular feel people, feel their soul's hidden cravings. They are able to sense arrogance and selfishness even from a great distance.”
“So here they test people's inner qualities?”
“Yes. I'm glad you don't find it stupid or laughable,” Faramond said seriously. “Many man do and these men are most likely to drop off after the very first test. The tests here are aiming at the true intentions of those who aspire to become a tamer. The strength is being tested just as much of course.” 
He led the way to the big wooden hut, where a group of man was gathered. On a pedestal there stood a grim-looking man, broad-shouldered and terrifying. He had muscular hands and a thick neck.
“Fellas, today be prepared for high temperatures.” He said in a coarse voice, looking at the crowd with the air of self-satisfaction. “Tell me, what do dragons love doing most of all?” He asked and gave the answer himself instantly. “They love breathing fire, and they couldn't care less who they breathe fire on, fellas.” Faramond chuckled rather loudly and the man's brutal face turned in his direction with the speed of a falcon. At the sight of Faramond, however, it softened. He quickly gave instructions to the crowd and stepped down towards Ruby and Faramond.
“Astrophilius! Long time no see!” His voice sounded much softer, though the coarseness remained. “Will you stay long?”
“Not today, Gideon, I'm here to introduce young Rubeus Sleeper to you. He is willing to be your assistant, for the reasonable payment, of course.”
Ruby stared at Faramond. The boy was eager to work at the camp, yet Gideon, this harsh man with thick neck seemed utterly terrifying. The latter, though, couldn't look more pleased.
“Wonderful! We will need you to cut the wood and run some errands. Can you do it?” Ruby, though a bit scared, nodded. “All settled then. You can start right away.”


That day they stayed in the camp until evening and a few days later Ruby felt as if he had been working there his whole life. Realising that it was impossible for him to meet the real dragons, Ruby contented himself by talking to other dragon-lovers just like him, sharing ideas and knowledge; all of this made him blissfully happy. He started saving money – in Pendleton people used coins called Ophirs. They were made out of a peculiar shiny material, which reminded Ruby of gold, but was, in fact, something else. There were three variations of this coin, each of them of different size – the biggest being the most expensive. Emmaline told Ruby, that though the Ophirs were used everywhere in Pendleton, there was a slight difference between the coins in the four villages. The Ophirs in Earthend were octagon shaped with the square cutouts in the middle. A sylph rested on one side of the coin and the phrase “Ophir of Air” was carved on another. 
Soon Ruby had much to brag about – he had his own savings, friends, those who were proud of him and each new day brought him joy. It came as a surprise even to himself, that soon Ruby knew so much about Pendleton, dragons and tamer profession that other people were coming to him with questions. The boy wasn't allowed to participate in the education due to his age, but he had made some friends and was constantly aware of everything that has been happening behind the closed doors. Day after day he got more and more used to Pendleton and even thought that nothing could surprise him. He realised how mistaken he was the day he took Emmaline along with him to show her the tamer's camp.
It was getting dark and the moon was floating in the sky, enjoying the surprisingly warm autumn evening. After showing Emmaline the whole camp (even insisting on seeing some spots twice) and telling her all sorts of stories about it, Ruby finally felt satisfied. Emmaline, the biggest adventure lover Ruby knew, offered to go further in the woods, to explore what else the forest was hiding. Ruby, no less an adventurer, agreed. They didn't make it far, though, because right next to the gates they met the most unexpected young lady they could ever imagine meeting in the depths of the forest. She reminded them of a frightened gazelle all alone in the darkness with her dark-blue eyes glowing. Beautiful, frail and dressed in white, she came closer to Ruby and Emmaline: 
“Can you please tell me if I'm going in the right direction?” She said in the most tender voice Ruby had ever heard. “I'm looking for a tamer's camp, although I can't seem to find it.”
“It's right there,” Ruby wanted to say, but somehow found himself lost for words. The lady's elegance took Ruby's breath away; he stupidly pointed in the deep woods. 
“We can lead you there,” Emmaline offered happily. She was gazing at the woman in admiration, just like Ruby himself. It was difficult to say what exactly was so dazzling about her – soft face features, kind expression, gentle voice or graceful gait – everything about her was ethereal.
They reached the gates of the camp in no time. The woman turned to them and thanked them heartily. 
“My name is Celena. I do hope we will meet again,” she smiled and bowed to them slightly before entering the camp. Emmaline and Ruby couldn't move or tear their eyes away. She seemed to be looking for somebody or something, as she kept turning her head around. Shaking his head to tear his eyes away for her, Ruby realised, that they weren't the only ones enchanted by the lady – many were staring at her in wonder.
“Can you believe it?” Emmaline gasped. “I've heard about them but had no idea that I would ever meet one!”
“One? One who?” Ruby asked her stupidly. 
“A star! She is a star!”
Ruby looked at her with distrust. “I'm pretty sure she is a woman, Emmaline.”
“Trust me, she isn't an ordinary woman,” Emmaline said and explained. “You see, the stars in the sky aren't just the stars – they are alive, they shine, guide us… Being a star is being the happiest and the most peaceful creature alive. All of them are sisters, mothers and daughters to each other. They live forever and they feel no pain. There is a legend about a silver star who sacrificed her immortality to save her sisters from an evil spirit. She became a woman with long fair hair and white skin, glowing as the starlight. She was silent and elegant. Even as a human she kept the ethereal features of a star. She was way too beautiful and way too weak – henceforth she was envied and hated by the women. Sadly, she wasn't fit for the tough world of human beings; she died, but her sacrifice was never forgotten by the stars. The legend has it that she was given a second chance and that she is still in the sky.”
“As a star again?”
“Oh no. Look up and you'll see her instantly.”
Ruby looked. Beautiful and distant the stars were sparkling on the night sky. And then he saw...
“The moon!” He exclaimed.
“Exactly. Well, that's what the legend holds.”
“So what does Celena have to do with all this?” 
“Oh, right,” Emmaline obviously enjoyed telling the legends no less than the storytellers of the Legend Circle. “There were several stars known to sacrifice their lives, but all of them lived so long ago. All of them were elegant and ethereal and you could feel their beauty as if it was tangible. It's the same with this lady, isn't it?”
Ruby looked at Celena, who was in the middle of conversation with Gideon. There was one thing he couldn't understand, though.
“If being a star is so great, why did she do it then? Why did she choose to become a human?”
Emmaline shook her head. “Who knows, she may have done it unwillingly. I wish I was a star,” she concluded dreamily and her mind floated away to the starry sky. Ruby was still gazing at the lady and a feeling came over him that it wasn't the last time he saw her. 
“It's past nine in the evening.” Emmaline's voice brought Ruby back. “I think we should go home, it's already dark.”
“Yes, you go, I'll meet you tomorrow.”
“Aren't you coming with me?”
“Gideon asked me to clean up after the test tonight, so I'm going to stay for a bit longer,” Ruby didn't tell Emmaline that it was actually his initiative to stay late – that way he could take a glimpse at the very first test. He walked Emmaline to the main gates and went in the direction where the test was about to take place. It was the fire challenge, where the potential tamers had to evade the streams of fire, appearing out of nowhere and, while doing it, carry the unbearably heavy sacks on their shoulders. Ruby wasn't surprised that most of the men were failing. He imagined a person, as thin and feeble as himself, running with the heavy sacks. Ruby felt he would disappoint himself if he ever tried doing such thing. Watching all these hale and strong men running from the fire made him feel uncertain about the path he had chosen. 
After Ruby cleaned everything up he lingered in the Trainee box, as it was called by the camp workers, to chat with those who have just experienced the first tamer test. There was much boasting and bragging, mostly from those who were far from succeeding. By and large, the conversation turned into a gossip sharing. Gossiping is not really in the nature of the potential tamers, but sharing rumours about the dragons most likely is.
“I've heard about the dragons in Waterend who live under water,” said a young man sitting next to Ruby. “I bet there are some in Airend too, well hidden.”
At this, a man twice as tall as Ruby chuckled. “These aren't dragons, but Aquaekhinopses.”
Some men nodded, but someone in the far corner, who Ruby couldn't even see said: “No, I'm pretty sure Cayden is right. There are Aquaekhinopses, but somebody had seen the real dragons too.”
“Well, I don't know much about Water,” a man in a funny red hat said rather arrogantly, “but I was told by a relevant source, that some dragon breeds leave their eggs in the caves until they are hatched. And, you know, there are many caves in Air. Some of these caves are bound to have some eggs in there.”
This aroused a murmur.
“Isn't it too easy, Gall? Wouldn't everyone know if it was the truth?”
“There are so many caves, one wouldn't even know where to start.”
Gall, the man with the relevant source only shrugged. At that moment a man, who was sitting at the far end stepped out of the shadow and said in a low voice:
“There are special kind of caves that can contain the heat inside – the Vermilion Caves. It seems to me that would be the perfect place for the dragon egg to be hatched.” The way this man spoke reminded Ruby of the tellers at the Legend Circle. He recited the phrase as if it was something he had learnt by heart.
“Of course it is,” the tall men laughed. “The Vermilion Caves are true and all of them are situated in Fireend. My grandfather was from Fire,” he added proudly.
“They are,” the man nodded. “Except for one.” His voice was deep and enchanting, so that every head was turned in his direction, even the tall man stopped laughing. “The Rotten Cave, to some people, is also known as Vermilion.”
Several men gasped. Ruby moved closer. He hadn't heard about the Rotten Cave before. The effect that this name made was intriguing.
“No one in their right mind will go to the Rotten Cave,” Cayden, the man who sat next to Ruby said. He looked afraid.
“Indeed, even the dragon egg doesn't seem to worth it.”
The silence followed, each of the men dozed into some kind of reminiscence. Ruby, however, was too overwhelmed with curiosity to stay silent.
“Where is this Rotten Cave situated?” He asked, but no one noticed. The repeated the question, loudly this time.
It was quite an uneasy feeling when more than a dozen heads turned in Ruby's direction. Each and every men in the room had the expression of fear on his face. 
“Why are you so eager, Rubeus?” someone said from the distance corner.
“I'm curious, that's all,” he answered in a low voice.
No one seemed willing to share this information with the boy. It was Cayden who answered Ruby, lowering his voice as well.
“Only the Magi themselves know the location of this cave.”
This was heard by Gall, a boldfaced man, who couldn't skip the chance of having a good laugh.
“Just imagine Rubeus coming to Alem and saying “Hey there, great weather, isn't it, by the way, where is the Rotten Cave situated?””
The howl of laughter and some other remarks like this followed. The question was forgotten and the atmosphere of good-heartedness was restored. Ruby laughed together with everyone, but the question was still in his mind, ready to leap out. 
Couple of gossips later the men slowly began to leave the Trainee Box one by one. Ruby was the last one – he locked the door and went towards the main gates.
“Rubeus?”
The boy jumped with surprise and looked at the speaker – it was Cayden. Ruby liked most of the trainees, but Cayden was, perhaps, the most amiable and kind one. 
“I feel I need to warn you – you seemed so very excited when you heard about the Rotten Cave. It is forbidden. And dangerous. You should bear it in mind, I don't want you to get hurt.”
Ruby was touched; he had no idea Cayden cared about him that much. But there was one thing Ruby couldn't get – what was there so frightening and dangerous that even such men as Cayden (and he was far from being a petite milksop) were afraid of?
“What is so dangerous about this cave? Why were all of you so terrified, Cayden?”
Here the man hesitated to answer. 
“I don't really know... But that's something we've always been told, since childhood. The Rotten Cave is extremely perilous and is forbidden.”
Ruby and Cayden travelled to the centre of Pendleton together where they parted. They didn't mention the Forbidden Cave during the rest of the journey.


That night Ruby couldn't sleep – his mind was too agitated for resting, he was busy turning in his bed instead of sleeping. When finally he was lucky enough to doze off some abrupt noise woke him up. Yet, everything was still and silent. Throughout the night, each time he was falling to sleep, it started from the beginning.
The gray Saturday morning found Ruby exhausted. He honestly tried to avoid all the thoughts about the dragons, caves and terrible dangers awaitng him there, but he was failing each time he attempted it. The result of his mind's activity that night was a sole thought – only the Magi know where the cave is situated and his good friend's father is a Magus. Having eaten his breakfast Ruby set off to Emmaline's house without any delay.
Emmaline was bright and cheerful, never mind the rainy October weather. Fae, the Routledge's maid, poured them some cocoa; they seated themselves in a nice cozy armchairs, but even this could not drive away all the agitation and anxiety from Ruby's mind. They were chatting for quite some time when Ruby had finally dared to ask:
“Emmaline, do you know where the Rotten Cave is situated?”
There was shock and terror in her greenish-brown eyes, as if a thunder had just hit their table. Ruby realised a second later, that he should have started this conversation from afar, but it was too late now, so he continued.
“What do you know about the Rotten Cave? Why is so dangerous? Is it really Vermilion Cave?”
At this, the dread in her eyes grew bigger and she looked at him with the mixture of fear and pity.
“Rubeus! No! You can't think of that!” Her voice was loud now. “I don't know who told you the rumours about the Rotten Cave, but you can't be so irresponsible as to do anything about it!”
And then Ruby realised something. He stared back at Emmaline.
“You knew about it, didn't you? You knew that there is a possibility of dragon eggs being hidden in a cave somewhere in Airend?”
“I – I did,” she said in a small voice. Ruby couldn't see her face, but she sounded as if she was about to cry. “I'm sorry, but there is a good reason for not telling you this, Rubeus. The Rotten Cave is not a place to wander.”
“Why is it so dangerous then?”
“I don't really know what's in there, but everybody in Pendleton knows, it's a very very bad idea to set foot in this cave! I know how much you want a real dragon, but you shouldn't hurry, you'll meet dragons when it's your time.”
He didn't want to hear all this. All he wanted was someone to explain him why was this cave so dangerous. Otherwise, it made absolutely no sense to him. 
“Emmaline, you can't expect me to just ignore it. I must at least try. Go and see if there is an egg inside. I have a strange feeling about this, a good feeling, as if something lies in that cave, waiting to be found by me!”
“Even if there is an egg, what do you expect to do with it?”
At this, Ruby had nothing to say. He opened his mouth to speak but nothing came out. Emmaline took her chance.
“Please, listen to me. You are twelve, you have no experience in dealing with dragons, who, by the way, are enormously big. And we live in Airend, a place not suitable for such creatures. And they breathe fire, Rubeus!”
“Well, when it is young I can take care of it by myself and later we will move to Earthend. Astrophilius Faramond can help me.”
Emmaline sighed and closed her eyes. She stayed like this for almost a minute and Ruby even thought that she fell asleep, when she opened her eyes and looked him straight in the eyes. There was something in her stare, that Ruby had never noticed there before – there was no trace of a smile inside her usually cheerful eyes.
“I'm happy of one thing, Rubeus. Only the Magi know the location of the Rotten Cave and they won't share this knowledge with anyone.”
At this, their talk ceased. Several minutes passed in forlorn silence. It was starting to rain; the autumn gloominess began creeping into Ruby's soul, and, once inside, it would have stayed there turning into severe vexation, if it wasn't for what happened next.
Quite aware of Emmaline's refusal to help him, Ruby stood up and went out of the mansion, without saying goodbye to her. More than ever he treasured this friendship, but now he didn't want to say anything or make amends. Once outside, Ruby quickly moved down the steps, when somebody behind him called his name. Dwire was sitting on a carved wooden bench on a porch smoking a pipe. In the lights of gray October sky, Dwire's moustache and bushy eyebrows seemed black as night and made his pale skin even whiter. Ruby had never seen Emmaline's father so calm and relaxed, even happy. The man decided to get to the point without any delay.
“I heard you talking to Emmaline,” he uttered, emitting puffs of smoke.
Ruby's heart sank and his first impulse was to run away as fast as he could. Something didn't let him, though, as if his shoe soles were glued to the spot. He looked at the man frowningly, waiting for scolding, shouting and disapproving. And then Dwire added something, that Ruby did not expect at all.
“Come sit with me.”
He did, at once. He didn't look at the man, but felt his fixed stare on his face, as if Dwire was trying to read his mind.
“Listening to all you have said, Rubeus, I felt...” 
Here he stopped and Ruby finished his sentence: “Disappointed.”
“I felt surprised much more than disappointed. You reminded me of myself when I was a bit older than you. So full of ideas, hopes, dreams. I was surrounded by the people who didn't believe in me. I was trapped in the circle of the silly restrictions.”
Dwire wasn't in a hurry to continue. Ruby heard Fae washing the dishes back at the mansion.
“I will give you a choice, Rubeus. A choice that would have made me incredibly happy if I had one back then. I am the Magus and I know the location of the Rotten Cave or, as we call it amongst ourselves, the Vermilion Cave.”
At this Ruby turned to face Dwire and glued his eyes on the man. 
“I will tell you its exact location, but on one crucial condition. You must ponder this whole situation thoroughly. This place is not something to meddle with and you must be completely sure when you go on such a journey. Can you give me that promise?”
Dwire hadn't even finished the phrase, when Ruby echoed him eagerly: “I promise!” The men looked dissatisfied.
“Please, understand what I mean by that. You do not go on a journey tonight, you go to your gwelling and consider everything. You try to decide if what you seek is worth the risk. And only after this and after a good night's sleep you make the decision.”
This time Ruby halted. Dwire was right, he didn't think before making a promise. Actually, he was about to go to the Cave straight away. For several seconds he remained silent but then he nodded.
“I understand. I promise you, I'll think about it before making a decision.” (Unconsciously he was about to say “before going”, but stopped himself just in time.)
“Do you remember where the Legend Circle takes place?”
“Yes, at the Bonfire Square.” It was a place difficult to forget, right beside the forest. Dwire looked impressed.
“It's nice that you know the names. Well, if you go along the forest without entering it, moving from the centre of Airend, you'll come across a river in a short while. There you will see a safe bridge, yet you can encounter a bridge guardian who loves mind games, be aware of it. Once you cross the bridge, you will find yourself deep in the woods with only one path to follow. This path will lead you straight to the cave. The journey there will take several hours and it is not perilous. However,” Dwire made a pause for Ruby to pay attention, “the moment you enter the cave there is no going back on your decision. You should be vigilant. No monsters will await you there and nothing will threaten your life, but you must be vigilant.”
Ruby really wished for the Magi not to be so mysterious, but he said nothing and only looked at Dwire eagerly.
“Here I must stop. My conscious had already started nagging me about what I have said.”
“I understand.” Ruby stood up and was about to go, when he turned to Dwire once again.
“Thank you, sofus Dwire. You have no idea what you've done for me.”
“I do,” was the answer. Dwire watched the boy going down the steps, continuing to smoke his pipe and emit the puffs of dense smoke.
Ruby didn't go straight home, though; he spent the rest of the evening wandering around Airend, never mind the chilly wind and annoying drops of rain. He did as he promised. He was thinking everything through; the problem was, that there wasn't much to think about, as Ruby had no clue what danger everyone was so scared of. It didn't seem real at all. Nobody gave him information, people just pulled on the terrified faces. On the other hand, wasn't it enough for the danger to seem real? Remembering the reaction of Emmaline, Cayden and a dozen of fully-grown strong men Ruby told himself that, probably, it wasn't worth it in the end. He wasn't even sure that there actually was an egg inside. Probably, everyone around him was right and the idea was foolish. With these thoughts, Ruby trotted home, since the rain was becoming stronger.
As it appeared, the sleepless night managed to turn everything around. It was still dark when Ruby woke up, ate his breakfast, packed his bag and set off towards the Vermilion Cave. 








Ch 8
The Vermilion Cave

The reception desk on the first floor was empty, as well as the dusty gwelling hall. The streets of Pendleton weren't any different – Ruby met not a soul on his journey to the field where the Legend Circle was taking place. He decided to go there on foot, though he came across several empty touk-touks on his way there. The  serenity and emptiness of the streets set him thinking and the thoughts were primarily about his family. It was nearly a month since he had left home and he didn't give this situation a proper thinking. He never received an answer to his letter. Though, how could he? How could anyone answer a letter that came from nowhere and had no address? His mother was probably worried. Ruby pictured her in his mind. He tried to picture her sad and even tormented because of the absence of her youngest son, but the only thing he could imagine was his mother sitting at her desk, engaged in her work and paying little attention to the absence or presence of anyone. He knew it was probably not the case, but that was how he remembered her.
Before long, Ruby could feel the soft grass underneath his feet – he was at the Bonfire Square. This time there were no people anywhere near the field, only the cold and dark woods around it. Ruby was about to move along the forest, as Dwire told him to, when he thought he saw a movement at the far end of the field near the empty fair stalls. 
The two weeks of equinox had passed, as Favian explained him the previous time they went to the Legend Circle, and the stalls were about to be removed, but most of them were still there. There were even some leftovers lscattered around. 
“It's probably just a dog,” Ruby thought, but then realised that he had never even seen a dog or a cat in Airend. “All right, that must be a Shedlynn or something of the kind,” he tried to persuade himself. But something was telling him that he was wrong. At that moment a ruffling noise came from the stalls and Ruby definitely caught a glimpse of somebody moving.  Trying not to look at that direction he went along the forest, but it appeared to be impossible to ignore what he saw in his side vision. A figure in white was moving towards him.
The first instinct was to flee. But something was urging Ruby to stay, to wait; just like something was urging him to enter dark attic, where he had found hamlin. Pulling himself together, he turned to face the figure in white. It was moving softly, barely touching the ground with graceful, almost ethereal gait. Suddenly Ruby realised that he had already seen this gait before. The beautiful lady in white he and Emmaline met at the woods near the tamer's camp – Ruby couldn't remember her name, but he remembered her features at once.
“Hello! It's you, I recognised you,” the lady spoke the words that Ruby himself was about to utter. “Don't be afraid. We met at the forest, remember?”
Ruby could only nod. The woman laughed gently.
“You are not particularly talkative, are you? What is your name?”
“R-Rubeus,” Ruby finally managed to say. And when he said it, the lady's name came to him. “You are Celena, I remember now.”
The woman smiled again, but her smile and voice were alarmed.
“What are you doing here all by yourself? It's not even dawn.”
“I'm...” Ruby was lost for words, this time not just because of the woman's beauty, but also because he couldn't say the truth and he was a terrible liar. “I'm just wandering around, you know. Good weather,” he added and a drop of rain landed on his nose.
“Come, it's freezing outside. I live right nearby, you can see my house.”
What Celena pointed at looked more like a hut than an actual house. It was small and coziness emitted from it invitingly. However tempting it looked, Ruby could not allow himself to delay any further. 
“It's very nice of you, but I really must go,” he said as cool and politely as he could, which was difficult since Celena took him by the hand.
“I thought you said you were just wandering around,” she smiled and then added hastily, saving Ruby from the necessity of lying once again. “It's all right, I understand secrets,” she winked at Ruby. He looked at her closely.
“And what are you doing here so early in the morning?”
“Hoping that luck might be on my side today.”
Ruby looked at her puzzled. 
“Why do you need luck? May be I can help you?”
“I'm starting to think that no one can help me. I'm looking for something which I alone can find.”
At that Ruby remembered Faramond calling himself a seeker and telling Ruby that he was looking for something. He wanted mention his friend, Astrophilius, who was also looking for something mysterious, but something stopped him. Ruby only wished Celena good luck and they parted.  
He set off along the forest, still thinking about Celena. There was something about her that made her look lost, something in her eyes told Ruby she needed help, though she herself rejected his offer. For a moment he was about to turn and go back and help Celena however he could, but he realised clearly that he should proceed with his journey – now or never. The only thing he regretted, though, is that Emmaline wasn't here with him. She would have definitely said something to reassure and cheer him up so that the dark forest and the chilling way ahead did not dismay him as much as they did.
That was when he heard the familiar mechanical twittering above him. He looked up, but before he saw the origin of the sound he already knew what it was. The tiny black birds were circling above him, as if encouraging him to grab one of them and write to Emmaline. He remembered Favian's warning not to catch birdies by the wings, stretched his arm and grabbed one of the metal birds by the foot. As it appeared, the funny little creature didn't like it, as it squeaked loudly and tried to make a getaway. 
“I'm sorry, I really need to write a letter!” Ruby pleaded, still holding the bird by its foot. “Please,” he said in despair, as the bird was one second away from letting itself go. At this, however, the bird stopped its vigorous attempts to break free and sited itself calmly on Ruby's palm. 
“Thank you,” Ruby said carefully, fearing the birdie might want to set off without the message. But nothing happened, it remained calm and was closing and opening the beak, keen on recording the message. 
“I guess you just miss hearing polite words, don't you?” Ruby grinned and recited the message to Emmaline. In the end he added: “I know it's still early, so she must be sleeping, but we can at least try.” 
With this being said, Ruby flung the birdie gently in the air and a second later it flew out of sight. 
He continued walking for several minutes, when finally he heard a river ahead. He doubled the pace and soon found himself in front of the bridge, when the wind was blowing severely and the sound of the icy-cold river was deafening all other sounds. 
Still standing far from the river and the bridge Ruby was waiting for the bridge guardian to appear at any second. Several minutes passed and nothing happened, so the boy made his way forward. He was about to step on a bridge when a figure in long cloak appeared out of nowhere. Probably it was standing there all the time, in the shadow of a massive tree, Ruby wasn't sure: it was still quite dark. The figure faced Ruby, but the hood of the cloak fell so low, that there was no face to see. 
“Are you the guardian of the bridge?” Ruby asked cautiously.
The figure remained silent and made several steps further. Slowly, as if trying to intrigue the boy, the figure took off the hood. Ruby was ready for everything, but not in the slightest was he ready for what he saw under the hood. It was his mother.
Tall, blond hair, sharp features; his mother stood there, smiling at him rather slyly and still did not breathe a word. Rooted to the spot, Ruby gaped at her, unable to speak. 
“I am the guardian, indeed,” Ruby's mother finally spoke. The voice was familiar to Ruby, yet there was something about the way she spoke. 
The next several moments passed in silence. The boy was watching his mother, being absolutely sure, that it wasnt his mother at all. Anyway, she was the last person to appear in Pendleton. “Except Ethan and Grace, perhaps,” he thought. The guardian of the brigde in his turn was watching Ruby closely. Finally, Ruby spoke.
“You are not her.”
“Clever,” the woman winked at him. Ruby was waiting for her to continue, but she was eager for Ruby to guess more. He wasn't able, though, so he simply asked:
“So why on Earth do you look exactly like her?”
“Well, that's the question I've been asked many times,” was the mysterious answer, that didn't help Ruby at all. Luckily, the woman continued.
“It's too bad I did not fool you. Who do I look like? A girl of your dreams? Oh no, you are way too young for it... A desceased sister?” She looked at Ruby closely. “Perhaps a neglecting mother?” Probably at this Ruby had changed in face because the woman smiled with triumph. “A mother it is,” she concluded. 
Ruby was no longer scared or surprised: a wave of fury ovrwhelmed him.
“Why do you pretend to be her then?” He demanded, but his voice was shaking.
“It isn't me to blame. I do not pretend to be anyone. I look just like I always do. It is you who sees his mother and it is you who should be asked this question,” she answered simply. “I look always the same, but each person sees different people when they face me. It is my curse and blessing. People look at me and see someone who worries them, who disturbes them, who troubles them and unnerves them. Your mother must be very dear to you, though you don't admit it to yourself.”
Ruby dropped his eyes. The woman was right – she did see through him.
“I am the person you is in your heart, but well hidden. You dare not speak about him, and it can drive you mad.” Her eyes were flashing, She was watching the boy eagerly. “Tell me, why do you want to cross the river?”
Feeling slightly afraid of the mysterious guardian, Ruby decided no to mess with her. 
“I want to go the the Vermilion Cave to find the dragon egg, because I've heard the rumours, it might be there, because it's very warm there and the dragon eggs needs warmth,” he said, forgetting to pause.
“Oh, yes, yes,” the woman said and giggled. “But it isn't the truth.”
“It is!” 
“Not the whole truth, definitely,” she moved closer to the boy. “You, humans, always seem to cheat yourselves. You keep pretending and lying to yourselves, not wanting to dig deeper. Truth lies hidden deep inside you.”
Ruby was sure now he didn't like the woman and her superiour tone of speaking. Especially when she did it with his mother's voice. 
“You say “humans”, as if you are not one of us,” he said irritably.
“Oh, let's not speak about me. You are far more interesting. Why do you want to cross the river? I advise you to think before answering. Dog deeper.”
“I've already told you the truth. I want a dragon. I want to find a friend. I want this dragon to become my friend.”
“Warmer. But not yet the truth.”
“I want to be a tamer. A strong and brave person.”
“Yes, much closer now,” she said, looking pleased. “But dig deeper.”
“Can't you just let me pass?” Ruby asked. He wanted his voice to sound confident and powerdful, but each time he looked at the woman he saw his mother and that only mislead him.
“No, I can't. Dig deeper. Take your time.”
Smiling, she started humming something and looked up at the sky. Realisinf, that it was the only way to cross the river, Ruby sighed. The silence fell; nothing was moving, only the river kept flowing with soft noise, unaware of the distress of a young boy standing on its bank. 
“I guess... If I am completely honest...”
“Yes?”
“I want to prove myself,” Ruby began slowly. “I want to prove myself worthy. To Favian and Emmaline. To Dwire, Astrophilius, all those people. To Ethan and Grace. And most of all, to my mother. I don't want her to think of me as of someone who ruins everything and is fit for nothing.”
The guardian looked at Ruby with his mother's grey eyes. It took his sometime to realise, it wasn't really her – for a moment he thought he saw motherly tenderness and sympathy in her eyes. But then her usual canny smile appeared. 
“What a funny way to prove yourself – breaking a law,” she said nastily. And moved to the side. “You are free to go.”
Ruby crossed the river without looking back. He felt exhausted and empty; he knew there way a long way ahead.  


Just as Dwire had told him, there was only one path to follow when Ruby entered the woods. He walked along it, thinking about the last words that the guardian had said. He was breaking a law and it was almost impossible to turn back now. Ruby wanted to tell himself that we wasn't afraid, that he was sure of what he's doing. But, remembering the guardian once again, he chose not to lie to himself. He was terrified.
It was impossible to say how much time had passed since he stepped on that path. Perhaps it was already dawn – the wood was too dense to even glimpse the sky. It seemed to Ruby that many hours have passed when the leaves above him finally started to grow sparse and the sky could be seen. It wasn't yet morning. Each step Ruby took brought him closer to the cave and he felt it. He could see the clearing not far away and hurried towards it. Finally, he stopped and looked at the massive cave in fron of him. 
It was rather chilly that night, but not near the Vermillion Cave. Ruby stretched his frozen palms towards it and rubbed them. He realized why the cave was called Vermillion, it was of fiery red colour with the hue of orange which made it seem even hotter than it was. The other name, however was a mystery to him – there was nothing rotten about it. The darkness filled the insides of the cave, as well as the field where it stood. Ruby stood there, rubbing his palms, enjoying the warmth for a long time. “The moment you enter the cave there is no going back on your decision,” Dwire's words echoed in Ruby's mind. He sat on the ground (touching it beforehand and making sure it was warm), thinking. Now, at this moment, right beside the entrance to the forbidden cave, the doubts Ruby had had before couldn't set his mind at rest. He wanted the people to be proud of him. He wanted to be a hero. But did he want to do it that way?
“I can't do it,” he said in despair. “I can't.”
“Of course you can,” a bright voice came behind him. “I didn't want to startle you. Stop looking at me like that, I'm worried for your eyes, they might pop out if you keep doing it.”
Ruby was staring at Emmaline, never being more happy to see her.
“Emmaline! How come you're here?” He shouted rather than asked.
“I coudn't let you do it all by himself, could I? That's what friends are for,” Emmaline helped Ruby to stand up. “I was wide awake when a birdie came with your letter. Or, better to say, bursted in. This was one rude birdie for sure.”
“But how come? I mean, where? How did you – ” Ruby tried his hardest to tie the words together, but his delight was too great to handle, especially on a night like this.
“How did I know where to go?” She finished his question. “I was lucky to overhear the conversation yuohad with my father.” At this, her face darkened. “I cannot believe he did something like that. He broke the rules and encouraged you to break them.”
“No, he actually helped me. He understood me.”
Emmaline didn't agree with the last statement, but she put on a smile on her face and hugged Ruby heartily.
“I'm simply glad you are okay, Rubeus. So,” she turned at the direstion of a cave. “What is your decision. I will support you anyway, but please think twice before deciding.”
“I think I have already decided, Emmaline. I may have had doubts, but it's nothing. I have a feeling about it, I really do. I want to go in.”
Emmaline sighed but once again she smiled and nodded. A rain started to drizzle, falling gently on the golden leaves.
“Than in we shall go,” she said and entered the cave.


The wave of heat hit them the second they stepped in. From the outside the cave had seemed to be dark inside, but it was hardly the truth. Though the walls of the cave most likely weren't on fire, they did seem to be. Crimson and bright as they were, the walls seemed to radiate heat and walking several minutes straight forward on a long and narrow path, Ruby and Emmaline were beginning to grow weary. Both were panting and sweating. The tunnel seemed to never end. Ruby couldn't say how long they have been walking without stop, but he wasn't surprised when, on turning back, the entrance seemed no more than a white dot at the end of the tunnel. It was getting more difficult to breathe with every steo they took.
“I bet you aren't... so happy you came with me now... are you?” Ruby said, panting. He tried to chuckle, but he was too exhausted. Emmaline didn't answer – she just waved her hand and shook her head.
Ruby was just about to advise her to go back when he caught a glimpse of light  ahead of them. He doubled his pace and soon found himself in an enourmous chamber with high dome ceiling. The walls were different here – they were crimson, like the walls in the tunnel, but they seemed to lost the magic of emitting heat, to Ruby's greatest relief. The thirst was still there, but at least it wasn't so difficult to breath. He enhaled the warm air and went further to explore the cave. It was vast and empty. Sand was everywhere, even on the walls, and the sound of it crunching underneath Ruby's soles filled the whole cave, echoing up high. 
“Emmaline!” he called. She was no more than a tine figure slowly moving forward. “Come on, it's much better here!”
It didn't encourage her, though, as he hoped it would. Ruby moved closer to the wall opposite him – it seemed that something was written there. At a closer look he was able to discern some words. They were barely visible under a thick layer of dust and sand.
“They must have been written centuries ago,” he whispered to noone in particular. 
“Oh, you weren't lying when you said it's better here,” came Emmaline's voice from behind.
“Take a look at this! Something is written on the wall, though I don't understand it.”
Emmaline hardly looked at the direction where Ruby pointed; she was looking around in alarm.
“It's quiet. Not a soul,” she said.
“Well, isn't it a good thing? It's peaceful.”
“No, Rubeus, it's quiet, but not the good kind of quiet. I don't like it here.”
Ruby chose to ignore her and turned to the wall again. 
“Secret... this... That one I don't understand... Hall... Th”at doesn't make any sense, listen,” Ruby read all the words he was able to make out to Emmaline, who wasn't listening. “blablabla.” 
He turned to Emmaline. She was in the corner of the cave, bending low, clearing the sand away, as if she was looking for something.
“Do you know what a Kerykeion is?”
“No, I don't think so,” she said, engaged in whatever she was doing.
“I guess it's some kind of chant, although it doesn't make any sense. May be if I change the place of some words...”
Time was slowly passing by. They could not know it, but outside the Vermilion Cave the first light of dawn shone faintly. Emmaline was now on all fours, exploring the cave, trying to find something; Ruby stood in front of the walls, mumbling to himself. 
“The realm of night arise... or is it the realm of fright? Everits lost within... I'm not even sure that “everits” is a noun,” he grunted. “Everits lost... from night?”





be he a newcomer or a Pendleton resident. 
